GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE MONDAY DECEMBER
FOUR MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES AND TO THE
REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT STANDS
ONE NATION FOR LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
NO DOUBT IT'S COUNCILOR
HARRISON TELLS OF HER SONG
ABSENT FATHER WATSON A DENHA
HERE BECAUSE WE'RE HERE WHERE
TAYLOR HERE BECAUSE OF IHR
HERE.
THAT'S WHERE IT HAPPENED HERE
BRIGS HERE BECAUSE WE'RE HERE
WE HAVE A QUORUM IN MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCILOR WATSON SECOND
ABOUT COUNTERMELODIES
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA MET A
MOTION PLEASE TO MOVE A CONSENT
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF CASE SIX TO IMMEDIATELY
AFTER THE INTRODUCTION FROM OUR
INDEPENDENT COMMITTEE POLICE
OVERSIGHT CHAIR SOME MOVE MOVE
THAT COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
COUNCILOR DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSE THE AGENDA IS AMENDED TO
FURTHER DISCUSS THE AGENDA AS
AMENDED ON FAVOR POSED THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO
MAYOR THANK YOU.
WE NOW HAVE AN INTRODUCTION
THAT IS TO SAY A COMMUNICATION
FROM THE CHAIR OF OUR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION CHAIR
CARTER.
CHAIR CARTER, WE BELIEVE YOU'RE
ON THE PHONE
.
STEPHANIE CARTER.
YES, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN.
THANK YOU.
OH, THAT EVENING MAYOR TAYLOR
AND COUNCIL MEMBERS
THERE IS
I WANT TO LET YOU KNOW
THERE
OK?
I THINK I HAVE SO GOOD IN YOUR
THE POLICE OVERSIGHT MISSION.
I HAD A PANEL TO INTERVIEW THE
CANDIDATES FOR THE POLICE
CHIEF.
WE DID INTERVIEW ALL THE
CANDIDATES AND WE ENJOYED THE
PROCESS AND WE NOTIFIED THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR OF THE
RESULTS OF OUR INTERVIEWS.
WE ALSO WANT TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT FOUR OF OUR COMMISSIONERS
IN THE EFFORT TO CONTINUE TO
EDUCATE OURSELVES RECENTLY
ATTENDED THE ANNUAL CONFERENCE
OF THE NACOLE.
WE MAY HAVE HEARD THAT THAT IS
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR
CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND THAT CONFERENCE
WAS HELD IN CHICAGO LAST MONTH.
IT WAS A FOUR DAY CONFERENCE
AND WE WERE WE HAD A NUMBER
OVER THE OVER THE DAYS A NUMBER
OF SESSIONS INFORMING US ABOUT
POLICE OVERSIGHT ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
WE ALSO, BY THE WAY, HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR DENHA OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION FROM SLANTING AND SO
WE MET WITH THEM AND WE HAD A
GOOD DISCUSSION ABOUT SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT ARE THERE.
BOTH OF OUR COMMUNITIES FACE WE
HAVE OUR COMMITTEES THAT ARE
HARD AT WORK.
WE'RE CATCHING UP ON OUR
COMPLAINT REVIEW PROCESS AND AT
OUR LAST MEETING WE DID
FINALIZE DOCUMENTS THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE USING FOR REVIEW
AND REPORTING OUT.
WE DO EXPECT TO HAVE OUR ANNUAL
REPORT FOR TWENTY TWENTY THREE
TO YOU BY THE END OF JANUARY
OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND WE DO
ANTICIPATE THAT THAT REPORT
FROM THE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
POLICY CHANGES.
WE ALSO HAVE A COMMUNICATIONS
COMMITTEE WORKING AND THEY ARE
WORKING TO MAKE THE COMMUNITY
AWARE OF OUR WORK AND ENCOURAGE
A DIALOG WITH THE COMMUNITY AND
WE ARE PREPARING AND HAVE BEEN
IN THE PROCESS OF PREPARING A
LIST OF INDIVIDUALS AND
ORGANIZATIONS THAT WILL BE ON
OUR EMAIL LIST.
SO WE HAVE AS WE DO OFTEN A
COMMUNICATIONS TO GO OUT TO THE
COMMUNITY.
THAT'S WHERE WE WILL BEGIN.
I DO ENCOURAGE ANYONE LISTENING
TO ALL OF THE COMMUNITY IF YOU
HAVE ORGANIZATIONS OR IF THERE
ARE INDIVIDUALS WHO WISH TO
RECEIVE INFORMATION ABOUT IT
WHEN IT GOES OUT, PLEASE
CONTACT OUR OFFICE AND WE WILL
ADD YOU TO THAT EMAIL THAT IF
THERE ARE NO QUESTIONS I HAVE
NOTHING FURTHER.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR THANK YOU.
NEVER MOTION PLEASE TO PROVE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE ASSESSMENT BY
KOTSENBURG DENHA SAYING THE
COUNCIL UNDER DIRECT DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA FAVOR
POSED THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF CSX IS
APPROVED WITH TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ARE SATISFYING
THE VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO A THREE AND A SIX
WE
NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME THE TV AD VERY
BRIEFLY FROM FROM THE FROM THE
RECITATION OF THE RULES WITH
RESPECT TO COUNCILOR COMMENT
GENERAL TIME WHICH ALTHOUGH I
WILL GET TO THEM IN A MOMENT TO
SAY TO SAY BRIEFLY THIS WITHOUT
KNOWING I SUSPECT AS A RESULT
OF LOOKING ON SOCIAL MEDIA THAT
SOME MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY
ARE HERE UNDER THE IMPRESSION
THAT COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE INDEED
BRINGING FORWARD A RESOLUTION
THAT IMPRESSION IS AND HAS BEEN
MISTAKEN.
THE MEMBERS WILL NOT TODAY AND
AS I UNDERSTAND IT DO NOT
INTEND TO BRING A RESOLUTION
OF THAT NATURE
.
THAT IS TO SAY AND I WISH TO
STATE FURTHER THAT FOLKS HERE
ARE WELCOME AT CITY COUNCIL
DURING WE ARE NOW AT OUR PUBLIC
COMMENT GENERAL TIME.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL THE COMMUNITY WHO
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE THE
CITY COUNCIL MEETING IS A
PUBLIC MEETING WHERE THE CITY
COUNCIL DOES THE MUNICIPAL WORK
OF ANN ARBOR CONSISTENT WITH
THE OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
WE HAVE A SET SET ASIDE A
PORTION OF OUR MEETING FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE BEGINNING
AND A PORTION AT THE END.
THE RULES OF THOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT ARE THE FIRST FIFTEEN
PERSONS FROM THE PUBLIC COMMENT
LIST WILL HAVE AND WHO ARE
PRESENT AND AVAILABLE WHEN IT
IS THEIR TURN TO SPEAK WILL
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK
IN ORDER IF THE FIRST FIFTEEN
PEOPLE COMPLETE THEIR SPEECH
WITHIN FORTY FIVE MINUTES THEN
WE WILL CONTINUE THROUGH THE Q
UNTIL WE REACH FORTY FIVE
MINUTE MARK AFTER THE FORTY
FIVE MINUTE MARK WE WILL
CONTINUE WITH OUR MEETING
READING THROUGH THE ENTIRETY
OF THE REMAINING OF THE AGENDA
AFTER THE BULK OF THE MEETING
IS COMPLETED WE WILL THEN HAVE
PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW TIME
WHERE PERSONS WHO HAVE SIGNED
UP IN ADVANCE WHO ARE ON THE
LIST WILL IN ORDER PRESENT ONE
PRESENT AND WHEN AVAILABLE IF
THEIR NAME IS CALLED WHETHER
WHEN THEIR NAME IS CALLED THEY
WILL THEN HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK AT THAT TIME.
AND TO BE CLEAR THAT FOLKS
UNDERSTAND THAT MEANS THAT IF
YOU ARE SPEAKER SAY AFTER
SIXTEEN, SEVENTEEN OR EIGHTEEN
IT IS THEREFORE UNLIKELY THAT
YOU WILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK AT THIS MEETING IN
ADVANCE OF THE BALANCE OF THE
MEETING YOUR TIME TO SPEAK AT
THE MEETING IS SET ASIDE FOR
OVERFLOW AFTER THE BALANCE
OF THE MEETING HAS CONCLUDED IN
ALL INSTANCES SPEAKER WE
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK IN PERSON.
THERE IS A TIME CLOCK HERE
ONLINE THE CLERK WILL NOTIFY
YOU WHEN YOUR TIME YOUR THIRTY
SECONDS WHEN YOUR TIME IS WHEN
YOU'RE THIRTY SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND OF COURSE THE
CLERK AND I WILL NOTIFY YOU
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED IN
EACH CASE WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
SPEAKER'S WE CAN HAVE ONLY ONE
PERSON SPEAKING AT ONCE AND
SPEAKER'S ARE NOT AUTHORIZED TO
DESIGNATE OR ALLOCATE THEIR
TIME TO OTHERS
.
FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ELIZABETH HUNTER
.
MONEY AND POWER.
THAT'S WHAT IT'S ABOUT HERE AT
CITY COUNCIL.
WELL A FEW YEARS BACK AGREED
AND SAID IN A DIFFERENT WAY HE
SAID MONEY AND BUILDINGS WILL
NOW THE MAYOR HAS EVERYTHING
ALL TIED UP IN A NEAT PACKAGE
WITH HIS NEW POLITICAL ACTION
COMMITTEE OR PAC PASSI MONEY
POWER AND BUILDINGS.
HOW TONE DEAF HAVE WE GOTTEN IN
THAT EVER AFTER SO MANY YEARS
OF THE NATIONAL RALLYING CRY TO
GET MONEY OUT OF POLITICS?
BUT MANY OF OUR POLITICIANS
HERE MIGHT BE A BIT TONE DEAF
FOLLOW THE MONEY THAT SHOULD BE
OUR CITY SLOGAN BUT HERE'S AN
OLD SONG WITH NEW LYRICS.
IS SHE REALLY GOING OUT WITH
HIM?
THERE SHE IS.
LET'S ASK THAT.
IS THAT THE MAYOR'S CAMPAIGN
T-SHIRT YOU'RE WEARING T IT
MUST BE GREAT TO BE CHUMMY WITH
HIM BY THE WAY WERE TO MEET HIM
AND MET HIM AT THE GREEN FAIR.
HE TURNED AROUND AND SMILED AT
ME.
YOU GET THE PICTURE?
YES.
WE SEE THAT'S WHY I FELL FOR
THE LEADER OF THE PACK.
MY FOLKS WERE ALWAYS PUTTING
HIM DOWN.
THEY SAID HE CAME FROM THE
WRONG PART OF TOWN.
I MEAN WHEN THEY SAY HE CAME
FROM THE WRONG PART OF TOWN
THEY SAID HIS TALES ARE TALL.
HE'S NOT PROGRESSIVE AT ALL.
I'LL TALK NO.
THE LEADER OF THE PACK ONE DAY
MY DAD SAID FIND SOMEONE NEW.
I HAD TO TELL THE MAYOR WE'RE
THROUGH WHAT HE MEANT WHEN HE
SAID YOU BETTER GO FIND
SOMEBODY NEW HAD SOMEONE WHO IS
NOT ONE OF CHRISTOPHER'S CHOSEN
NOT TO DEVELOPERS BEHOLDEN.
YES.
YOU COULD DO BETTER THAN THE
LEADER OF THE PACK.
LOOK OUT.
LOOK OUT, LOOK OUT.
LOOK AT I FEEL SO HELPLESS.
WHAT CAN I DO?
THE MAYOR NOW LEADS A PACK THAT
IS NEW HE CALLS IT AND I FOR
EVERYONE WHO IS WEALTHY AND
POWERFUL SOMETHING LIKE THAT
ALI, THE LOCAL THE MARQUISE NOW
IT'S ALL GONE LOCAL DEMOCRACY
NOW IT'S ALL GONE ON LOCAL
DEMOCRACY NOW IT'S ALL GONE
LOCAL DEMOCRACY NOW IT'S ALL
GONE.
OH THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEFF HAYNER
.
I'M SO EXCITED TO SEE A FULL
HERE TONIGHT.
I CAN TELL YOU IT'S GREAT TO
HAVE PEOPLE INTERESTED IN
WHAT'S HAPPENING HERE ON CITY
COUNCIL.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK TONIGHT ABOUT
PATRONAGE APPOINTMENTS IN
GENERAL AND IN PARTICULAR ALSO
YOU KNOW, SINCE THE TIME
OF KINGS THERE'S BEEN PATRONAGE
APPOINTMENTS AND FOR THOSE
OF PEOPLE WHO HAVEN'T HEARD
OF THAT, IT'S BASICALLY WHEN
SOMEONE DOES A LOT OF WORK FOR
THE PERSON IN CHARGE THEY GET A
NICE SWEET APPOINTMENT SO THEY
CAN DO WHATEVER SORT LIKE A
FAVOR.
SOME PEOPLE CALL IT CRONYISM.
IT'S BEEN HAPPENING SINCE THE
TIME OF KINGS AND I EXPERIENCE
UNDER KING JOHN HALF-YEAR I HAD
A LEGITIMATE CLAIM TO A
AN
APPOINTMENT ON A PUBLIC
COMMISSION BASED ON MY BEST
FINE ARTS DEGREE IN TWENTY
YEARS EXPERIENCE IN PUBLIC ART
AND IT WAS WITHDRAW AT THE
MEETING BECAUSE HE SAID HE
DIDN'T WANT TO GIVE ME THE
TAINT OF THAT.
HE SOMEHOW SUPPORTED ME BECAUSE
HE KNEW I WAS RUNNING FOR
COUNCIL IN TWENTY THIRTEEN BUT
HE DIDN'T DO THE SAME FAVOR FOR
SALIHA PIETERSON OF COURSE SHE
GOT HER APPOINTMENT AT SO MANY
BUILDINGS CROWD I GUESS AS A
FIRST SPEAKER THAT NOW NOT ALL
MALE APPOINTMENTS ARE PATRONAGE
APPOINTMENTS.
OF COURSE MANY FOLKS WHO SERVE
ON THE BOARDS OR COMMISSIONS
ARE INTERESTED EXPERIENCE AND
THEY SHOULDN'T ALL BE PATRONAGE
APPOINTMENTS BECAUSE WE HAVE A
CHECK AND BALANCE SYSTEM IN
PLACE.
I LIKE THE KINGS OF ENGLAND AND
YOUR THAT COUNCIL HAS TO
APPROVE THESE APPOINTMENTS NOW
WHAT'S A SURE SIGN THAT IT'S A
PATRONAGE APPOINTMENT?
PERHAPS THE APPOINTEE HAS NO
RELEVANT EXPERIENCE PERHAPS
THEY ARE ON RECORD AS BEING
OBVIOUSLY A PATRON OR A DONOR
OR HAVING DONE SOME OTHER DIRTY
WORK FOR THE PERSON IN CHARGE.
PERHAPS THEY CONSTANTLY HAVE TO
RECUSE THEMSELVES FROM THE
ACTUAL VOTES BECAUSE THEY HAVE
A FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THE
BOARD AND THE OUTCOME OF THE
PRODUCT THE BOARD PRODUCT ON
WHICH THEY SIT THOSE ARE SURE
SIGNS NOW IN PARTICULAR TONIGHT
WE HAVE AN APPOINTMENT TO THE
FIVE YEAR APPOINTMENT TO THE
TRANSIT AUTHORITY FOR MY FORMER
COLLEAGUE COUNCIL MEMBER JULIE
GRANT.
NOW IN MY BRIEF TIME WITH HER
YOU ONLY ABOUT HALF OF YOU HAVE
HAD THE HAVE HAD TO JUST SAY
THE EXPERIENCE OF WORKING WITH
HER THE OTHER HALF YOU HAVE IT
AND THAT'S THE ONES I WANT TO
SPEAK TO BECAUSE YOU HAVEN'T
HAD THE THRILL OF BEING IN THE
BACK ROOM THERE IN CLOSED
SESSION OR CONSTANTLY SEEING
VIOLATIONS OF OUR CHARTER
VIOLATIONS OF COUNCIL RULES,
VIOLATIONS OF THE OPENS
MEETINGS ACT SO MUCH SO THAT WE
GOT LETTERS FROM MYSELF TO THE
CITY ATTORNEY AND THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S OFFICE, THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
THAT'S HOW BAD IT WAS.
AND DON'T GO ASK TAYLOR AND I
HEAR ABOUT IT BECAUSE THEY WERE
ALSO IN THOSE LETTERS.
SO MY LAST TWENTY SECONDS I'D
LIKE TO THANK ALL OUR FOLKS FOR
COMING OUT HERE TONIGHT AND IF
I COULD TURN AROUND AND
APOLOGIZE IN PERSON FOR NOT
BRINGING A RESOLUTION THAT SAYS
WE ARE AGAINST MILITARY
NEUTRALIZER, HOW COME YOU KNOW
SEE I APOLOGIZE TO YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS NAZANIN
MAHMOUD
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
SO I'M HERE BECAUSE I WAS A
RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR UNTIL
RECENTLY FOR ELEVEN YEARS.
WHAT BROUGHT US TO ANN ARBOR
WAS THE DIVERSITY I CHOSE ANN
ARBOR OVER ALL OTHER PLACES AND
I WAS INSPIRED EVEN ON MY HOME
SEARCH TO FIND HOUSES THAT WERE
PART OF THE UNDERGROUND
RAILROAD AND I THOUGHT I WAS
MOST BLESSED PLACE TO BE.
I WAS VERY HAPPY HERE RAISING
MY CHILDREN, HAVING THEM GO
THROUGH SCHOOL HAD NO REGRETS.
WE MOVE FOR OTHER REASONS
RECENTLY BUT I'M HERE TO URGE
THE COUNCIL FOR A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION BECAUSE THIS PLACE
NEEDS TO STAND ON THE RIGHT
SIDE OF HISTORY LIKE IT HAS IN
THE PAST.
WE THE REASONS FOR A CEASE
FIRE.
I'M A PEDIATRIC NEUROLOGIST AND
THERE IS AN INCREDIBLE LOSS
OF LIFE GOING ON.
SIX THOUSAND CHILDREN EQUATES
TO AND THAT IS AN OLD NUMBER
EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND AMERICAN
CHILDREN IF YOU EQUATE IT TO
THE SIZE OF GAZA'S POPULATION
TO THE SIZE OF THE POPULATION
HERE I HAVE NO INTEREST IN
ANYTHING ELSE BUT TO SEE THIS
TRAGEDY STOP IN PLACES LIKE ANN
ARBOR HAVE TO HAVE TO LEAD THE
WAY IN TERMS OF WHAT'S MORALLY
RIGHT.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT DIPLOMACY
CAN SOLVE.
THERE'S NOTHING WORTH KILLING
600 700 CIVILIANS A DAY.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT THAT CAN
COME OF THAT THERE'S NOTHING
THAT DIPLOMACY CAN'T SOLVE.
AND SO WE NEED TO STAND FOR A
CEASE FIRE WITH DIPLOMACY AND
GOVERNMENTS CAN BE OUSTED,
HAMAS CAN BE OUSTED, HOSTAGES
CAN BE RELEASED, PALESTINIANS
CAN HAVE A FUTURE, JEWS CAN
LIVE IN PEACE AND ISRAEL
EVERYTHING CAN BE SOLVED IF A
FIRST STEP OF A CEASE CAN BE
TAKEN.
AND SO WHAT HAPPENS IF YOU
DON'T HAVE A CEASE FIRE AND
WHAT HAPPENS IF YOU DON'T TAKE
A STAND YOU'RE ON THE WRONG
SIDE OF HISTORY THEN YOU'RE ON
ON A SHAMEFUL SIDE OF HISTORY
AMONG ALL OF THESE GENOCIDES.
I DON'T HAVE TO TO NAME THEM
FOR YOU AND YOU WILL BREED HATE
IN YOUR OWN COMMUNITY.
YOU'LL BREED HATE IN YOUR OWN
COMMUNITY.
I'M SORRY BUT BERNIE SANDERS
WAS A HERO OF MINE AND HE DID
NOT STAND FOR WHAT A CEASE FIRE
AND LOOK AT THREE MUSLIM
STUDENTS GOT SHOT IN HIS OWN
COMMUNITY AND SO WE NEED TO NOT
HAVE THAT KIND OF HATE SPREAD
HERE.
WE NEED TO BE THE KIND
OF COMMUNITY THAT THAT, YOU
KNOW, BROUGHT US ALL HERE.
THANK YOU.
NEXT OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS REEMA
HASSOUNA TOOPS.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
I AM HERE TO CALL FOR A CEASE
FIRE A PERMANENT CEASE FIRE IF
YOU ARE NEUTRAL IN SITUATIONS
OF INJUSTICE YOU HAVE CHOSEN
THE SIDE OF THE OPPRESSOR.
THOSE ARE THE WORDS OF THE
MORAL GIANT DESMOND TUTU SINCE
WORLD WAR TO END THE HORROR
OF THAT THERE HAS BEEN A
PROMISE BY THE UN NEVER AGAIN
TO MAKE IT ILLEGAL TO TARGET
CIVILIANS TO USE FOOD, WATER,
MEDICINE AS A WEAPON OF WAR.
NEVER AGAIN THE PROMISE THAT
ALL PEOPLE LIVE WITH DIGNITY
FREE FROM OCCUPATION AND
OPPRESSION WAS SUPPOSEDLY TRUE
FOR EVERYONE EXCEPT IT SEEMS
FOR PALESTINE AND I AM
PALESTINIAN VERY PROUD.
I SPOKE TO MY FATHER WHO IN
1948 BECAME A REFUGEE.
HE HAD TO WALK THE TRAIL
OF TEARS A TORTUROUS AND
TORTUROUS ONE FOR A 13 YEAR OLD
BOY WHO ENDED UP IN A REFUGEE
CAMP.
I ASKED HIM TO SPEAK TONIGHT TO
CALL IN AND HE SAID TO ME WHY
WHY MUST I BEG FOR THE EQUALITY
OF PALESTINIAN LIFE?
WHY MUST I SPEAK TO YOUR CITY
COUNCIL TO TELL THEM WE ARE
EQUALLY HUMAN AND HE'S RIGHT.
THAT BOY FOLLOWED THE YELLOW
BRICK ROAD TO THE UNITED STATES
TO OKLAHOMA AND HE QUICKLY SAW
SIMILARITIES BETWEEN THIS US
COLONIAL SOCIETY AND WHAT WAS
HAPPENING TO JUST INDIGENOUS
PEOPLE AND WHAT WAS HAPPENING
TO PALESTINIANS.
I URGE YOU TO STAND ON THE
RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY IN 2002,
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL PASSED A
RESOLUTION AGAINST THE WAR IN
IRAQ.
IT WAS A LOCAL DOMESTIC AND
MORAL ISSUE THEN AND IT REMAINS
ONE NOW.
IN FACT, COUNCILWOMAN HEIDI
KAREN HARRELL PITCH THE
RESOLUTION AS A MEANS TO
SUPPORT LOCAL REPRESENTATIVES
IN HIGHER GOVERNMENT WHO OPPOSE
THE WAR.
IT IS YOUR ROLE TO MAKE THAT
PRESSURE TO PUT PRESSURE ON OUR
STATE AND FEDERAL LEADERS WHO
HAVE LOST THEIR WAY IN THIS
WILDERNESS.
I'D LIKE TO CLOSE WITH A POEM
BY AARON BARRY BECAUSE OF US
THIS MORNING I LEARNED THE
ENGLISH WORD GAUS FINALLY WOVEN
MEDICAL CLOTH COMES FROM THE
ARABIC WORD.
I THOUGHT THAT BECAUSE THE
GAZANS HAVE BEEN SKILLED
WEAVERS FOR CENTURIES I
WONDERED THEN HOW MANY OF OUR
WOUNDS HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED
BECAUSE OF THEM AND HOW MANY
OF US HAVE BEEN LEFT OPEN
BECAUSE OF US.
SO I CALL UPON YOU NOW YOU WILL
SPEAK FOR THE US AND DO THE
RIGHT THING FOR PALESTINIANS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
THIS CHALLENGE TO
CAROLYN WHO
IS JOINING US ON ZOOME CRESTAR
SIX ON YOUR PHONE NUMBER SIX
FIVE SEVEN GO AHEAD.
HI I'M IN ANN ARBOR AND I JUST
LIKE TO ECHO OTHER PEOPLE CALL
TO URGE THE NRA THAT YOU CALL
THE DENVER CITY COUNCIL AND
JOIN NEIGHBORING CITIES LIKE
DEARBORN, HAMTRAMCK AND DETROIT
AND SUPPORT A RESOLUTION
AFFIRMING OUR COMMITMENT AND
SUPPORT YOUR CONGRESSIONAL AND
WORLDWIDE CALLS FOR AN
IMMEDIATE AND PERMANENT CEASE
FIRE.
AND I CAN'T I DON'T EVEN HAVE
WORDS TO DESCRIBE HOW HORRIFIED
AND DEVASTATED BY THE VIOLENCE
AND DEATH SUFFERED BY PEOPLE
OF GAZA IN THE PAST EIGHT
WEEKS.
AND I HOPE THAT THE CITY
OF ANAPRA WILL RECONSIDER THEIR
UNWILLINGNESS TO FOLLOW A
PRECEDENT SET BY OTHER MICHIGAN
CITIES AND DECIDE TO SPEAK UP
FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE SUFFERING
AND DESPERATELY NEED SUPPORT
FOR MORE LIVES ARE WOULD BE
TAKEN.
I ALSO HOPE THAT SUCH A
RESOLUTION WOULD ALSO
COMMITMENT TO COMBATING ANTI
ARAB AND PALESTINIAN
ISLAMOPHOBIC AND ANTI-SEMITIC
BIGOTRY IN ANN ARBOR AND UPHOLD
THE RIGHTS OF EVERYONE IN OUR
COMMUNITY TO LEARN, WORK, PRAY,
PLAY AND ENGAGE PEACEFUL
PROTEST WITHOUT THREATS,
INTIMIDATION, DUCTING INJURY OR
DEATH.
THANK YOU.
THE NEXT ITEM IS POLYSYLLABLES
LAST CITY COUNCIL MEETING MANY
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ATTENDED AND
VOICED THEIR DESIRE FOR THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR TO PASS A
RESOLUTION
IN SUPPORT OF A
CEASE FIRE IN GAZA.
COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE SUGGESTED
THAT A RESOLUTION CALLING FOR A
CEASE FIRE IS OUTSIDE THEIR
JURISDICTION.
HOWEVER, OTHER CITY COUNCILS
HAVE LISTENED TO THE VOICES
OF THEIR CONSTITUENTS AND HAVE
PASSED SIMILAR RESOLUTIONS
CALLING FOR A CEASE FIRE
INCLUDING OUR AMAZING
NEIGHBORING CITIES DEARBORN,
DEARBORN HEIGHTS, HAMTRAMCK AND
DETROIT.
AFTER THE CITY COUNCIL MEETING,
COMMUNITY MEMBERS CONNECTED,
MOBILIZED AND BUILT ON THE
COLLECTIVE KNOWLEDGE OF OTHER
CITIES WHO HAVE PASSED
RESOLUTIONS CALLING FOR A CEASE
FIRE TO CREATE THEIR OWN
RESOLUTION.
WE HAVE SHARED WITH COUNCIL
MEMBERS THIS RESOLUTION CRAFTED
BY THE PEOPLE AND THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS DID NOT PUT IT ON THE
AGENDA.
BUT AS AND I ARE MOBILIZING
ALTHOUGH INCORRECTLY STATED BY
THE MAYOR, WE AS CONSTITUENTS
WILL PRESENT THIS RESOLUTION
OVER AND OVER AGAIN AS MANY
TIMES AND WE WILL KEEP YOU LONG
AND EVERY TIME UNTIL A
RESOLUTION FOR AN IMMEDIATE
CEASEFIRE IS PASSED IN THIS
COUNCIL AND I WILL READ THE
POINTS THE MAIN POINTS WE HAVE
PRESENTED THAT ARE IN THE
DOCUMENT RIGHT IN FRONT OF YOU
BECAUSE I'M ALSO NOT SURE IF
THEY HAVE BEEN FULLY READ BY
ALL OF YOU AND THERE ARE PLENTY
EXTRA FOR ANYONE IN THIS ROOM
WHO WOULD LIKE TO READ THE
RESOLUTION THAT CONSTITUENTS
HAVE COLLECTIVELY CREATED THE
FIRST BEING AND OUR SUPPORT FOR
THE CEASEFIRE AS DESCRIBED IN
SEVEN EIGHT AND ASK OUR KINDS
OF PERSONS TO JOIN US IN
DEMANDING AN IMMEDIATE CEASE
FIRE NUMBER TO CALL FOR A
REALLOCATION OF TAXPAYER FUNDED
MILITARY AID MONEY THAT HAS
BEEN SENT TO ISRAEL FOR
DOMESTIC AND REALLOCATE IT TO
DOMESTIC INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECTS INCLUDING THOSE IN OUR
OWN CITY.
AND THREE, AS THE LAST PERSON
SAID, COMMIT TO COMBATING
ANTI-SEMITISM, ISLAMOPHOBIA AND
ANTI PALESTINE, ANTI
PALESTINIAN AND ANTI ARAB
BIGOTRY SUPPORT THE RIGHTS FOR
PEOPLE OF BOTH ISRAEL AND
PALESTINE TO LIVE IN PEACE AND
SECURITY AND UPHOLD THE RIGHT
OF THOSE IN ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY
AND ALL THE PEOPLE TO LIVE AND
WORK, PRAY, PRAY AND ENGAGE IN
PEACEFUL PROTEST WITHOUT
THREATS OF INTIMIDATION,
DOXXING, INJURY OR DEATH.
THIS IS WHY IT IS RELEVANT IN
THIS COUNCIL.
MY FELLOW COMMUNITY MEMBERS ARE
IN DANGER.
MY STUDENTS AND FRIENDS WHO ARE
PEACEFULLY PROTESTING HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED DURING THEIR FINAL
SEASONS ON THE GROUND AND HAVE
FACED POLICE BRUTALITY AND
REALLY HARMFUL DOXXING.
THIS REVISED RESOLUTION BELONGS
HERE IN THIS COUNCIL BECAUSE
THIS COUNTRY HAS STUDIED THE
STATE'S SMALL GOVERNMENT ACTION
LEADS TO BIG GOVERNMENT ACTION.
MANY OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE BEEN
IN SUPPORT OF THIS BUT THE U.S.
AS A WHOLE HAS BEEN GRAVELY
BEHIND.
A GENOCIDE IS HAPPENING AND I'M
HOPEFUL THAT THIS CITY WILL BE
ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY
WHEN THE UNITED STATES
ULTIMATELY FINALLY ACCEPTS IT
FOR WHAT IT TRULY IS.
THIS WILL BE IN OUR HISTORY
BOOKS AS GENOCIDE.
I HOPE YOU'RE ON THE RIGHT SIDE
.
NEXT SPEAKER OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS AISHA HUSAINI
AISHA WHO
ZHONGNANHAI IS ON THE PHONE.
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND BY
PRESSING STANADYNE
CALLER WITH
THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN NINE
SIX NINE
MAYOR I DO NOT SEE
THIS CALLER ON THIS PHONE CALL
NO HOLD FOR A MOMENT
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RACHEL
LIPSON
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS RACHEL UPSON.
I'M AN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT AND
I'M ALSO AN AMERICAN JEW WHO
CAME OF AGE POLITICALLY DURING
THE IRAQ WAR.
I ATTENDED MY FIRST PROTEST
AGAINST THAT WAR AT 13 AND I
VISCERALLY REMEMBER THE HORROR
I FELT UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
TORTURE IN ABU GHRAIB, THE
ILLEGAL DETENTION IN GUANTANAMO
AND THE INDISCRIMINATE KILLING
OF IRAQI CIVILIANS IS BEING
DONE IN MY NAME AS AN AMERICAN
BY MY GOVERNMENT 20 YEARS LATER
I AM EXPERIENCING DEJA VU
EXCEPT THIS TIME I FEEL A
DEGREE OF HOPE.
I SEE PEOPLE OF CONSCIENCE
SPEAKING OUT AGAINST THE HUMAN
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS AND
COLLECTIVE PUNISHMENT OCCURRING
IN GAZA AND THE WEST BANK, THE
CITIES OF OAKLAND, DETROIT,
DEARBORN AND HAMTRAMCK HAVE
ENDORSED PERMANENT CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTIONS AND I'M HERE TO ASK
THE ANIBA CITY COUNCIL TO DO
THE SAME.
SOME MAY ACCUSE ME
OF PARTIZANSHIP WHY AM I
FOCUSING ON ISRAEL?
DIDN'T HAMAS KILL TWELVE
HUNDRED PEOPLE AND TAKE
HOSTAGES?
AND THE ANSWER IS YES THEY DID
PART OF BEING JEWISH IN THIS
TIME IS TO HOLD IMMENSE
COLLECTIVE GRIEF FOR THE
FAMILIES WHO HAVE BEEN TORN
APART IN ISRAEL AT THE SAME
TIME AS I GRIEVE FOR
PALESTINIANS BUT MY TAX DOLLARS
DO NOT GO TO HAMAS.
OUR TAX DOLLARS IN THE BILLIONS
GO TO ISRAEL WEAPONS
MANUFACTURED HERE GO ON TO
DESTROY HOSPITALS, CHURCHES,
SCHOOLS, HOMES AND MOSQUES.
OUR GOVERNMENT HAS STATED THAT
THERE IS NO LINE THAT ISRAEL
CAN CROSS THAT WOULD STOP OUR
UNCONDITIONAL SUPPORT NO MATTER
HOW MANY INTERNATIONAL STATUTES
OF HUMAN RIGHTS ARE TRAMPLED
AND BROKEN.
I'VE HEARD PEOPLE SAY THAT THIS
STRATEGY IS THE ONLY WAY TO
KEEP YOU SAFE AND AS A JEW AND
AS A HUMAN I DO WANT TO BE SAFE
BUT MY SAFETY IS NOT MORE
IMPORTANT OR MORE VALUABLE THAN
THE SAFETY OF ANY PALESTINIAN
JEWISH SAFETY CANNOT BE BOUGHT
WITH THE BODIES OF THOUSANDS
OF CHILDREN TO SAFETY UPON THE
MASS GRAVES OF ANOTHER
OPPRESSED POPULATION.
JEWISH SAFETY CAN ONLY BE
ACHIEVED BY STANDING IN
SOLIDARITY WITH ALL OPPRESSED
PEOPLE AND SPEAKING UP FOR THE
LIBERATION AND SAFETY
OF EVERYONE THAT IS TIKKUN OLAM
TO REPAIR THE WORLD VIOLENCE
BEGETS VIOLENCE.
THE EVENTS OF OCTOBER 7TH WERE
PREDICATED ON YEARS OF VIOLENT
OPPRESSION.
THAT OPPRESSION HAS BEEN
DOCUMENTED INTERNATIONALLY AS
WELL AS BY ISRAELI HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS SUCH AS B'TSELEM
.
IN TURN THE LIKELIHOOD
OF ISRAEL DESTROYING HAMAS WITH
BOMBS SEEMS ABOUT AS LIKELY TO
BE SUCCESSFUL AS WE WERE AT
DESTROYING THE TALIBAN.
WHAT WE ARE DESTROYING OUR
HOMES, HOSPITALS, CIVILIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE, LEAVING OVER A
MILLION PEOPLE WITHOUT SHELTER,
WITHOUT WORK CLOTHES, WITHOUT
CLEAN WATER, WITHOUT FOOD AND
WITHOUT MEDICINE EVEN WITH A
CEASEFIRE.
THIS IS A HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
LET ME REMIND YOU THAT ANNE
FRANK DID NOT DIE IN A GAS
CHAMBER.
SHE DIED OF A PREVENTABLE
DISEASE CRAMMED INTO UNSANITARY
CONDITIONS AT BERGEN BELSEN.
I AM NOT A DIPLOMAT.
I AM NOT HERE TO SAY WHETHER
ONE OR TWO OR FIFTY STATE
SOLUTION IS BEST.
BUT I AM HERE TO SAY THAT IF
THE BOMBING DOES NOT STOP THAT
QUESTION WILL BE MOOT.
I AM HERE TO SAY THAT ENDORSING
A CEASEFIRE IS THE MOST BASIC
ACT OF HUMAN DECENCY THAT YOU
CAN TAKE TO SAVE THOUSANDS
OF LIVES.
OUR GOVERNMENT IS OFTEN WRONG.
IT IS OUR JOB TO SPEAK TRUTH TO
POWER AND TELL OUR GOVERNMENT
TO DO BETTER AND TO PUSH OUR
ALLIES TO DO BETTER AS OUR
REPRESENTATIVES YOU CAN USE THE
POWER WE HAVE VESTED IN YOU TO
PUSH THE STATE AND FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TO LISTEN TO OUR
VOICES THAT THEY HAVE SO FAR
IGNORED.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DENNIS
GOONDAS
.
UM MY NAME IS DENNIS GOONDAS
AND I'M CALLING FOR A CEASE
FIRE IN GAZA AND I'M HERE TO
REPRESENT THE PALESTINIANS.
I'M CURRENTLY WATCHING ONLINE
AS THEY FILM THEIR OWN GENOCIDE
LIVE ON MY INSTAGRAM FEED.
I'M HERE AS THEIR MUSLIM
BROTHER AND SISTER I'M HERE
SUGGESTS TO SUGGEST AN
ALTERNATIVE TO THE ANNUAL TWO
MILLION DOLLARS THAT ANN ARBOR
SENDS TO ISRAEL TWO MILLION IN
OUR TAX DOLLARS THAT COULD BE
USED FOR THINGS OTHER THAN A
GENOCIDE.
I'M ORIGINALLY FROM TURKEY AND
MY GRANDPARENTS MIGRATED TO THE
HARBOR AREA IN THE NINETEEN
SEVENTIES.
THEY WERE TAILORS HERE AND THEY
HAD A SHOP IN DOWNTOWN ON MAIN
STREET AND MY GRANDMOTHER HAD A
SHOP ON LIBERTY AND ST. AND FOR
THIRTY YEARS THEY WORKED VERY
HARD TO TAKE CARE OF US AND
THEY BROUGHT US HERE TO ANN
ARBOR BECAUSE OF ITS DIVERSITY
ITS NATURE, ITS BACKGROUND, ITS
TOLERANCE AND EVERYONE KNOWS
THAT OUR WORK KEEPS CALLING YOU
BACK.
MY FAMILY DIDN'T COME HERE AS
REFUGEES.
THEY DIDN'T ESCAPE WAR NOR ARE
THEY PART OF A DIASPORA.
THEY CHOSE TO COME HERE BECAUSE
OF ACCEPTANCE AND TOLERANCE.
I LIVE I HAVE LIVED IN ANN
ARBOR ALMOST MY ENTIRE LIFE AND
I'VE ATTENDED COUNTLESS
PROTESTS STARTING IN MY TEENAGE
YEARS ALL THE WAY UP UNTIL MORE
RECENTLY IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE
CONSTANTLY PROTESTING FOR
PALESTINE.
I'VE BEEN PROTESTING FOR
PALESTINE FOR OVER TWENTY
YEARS.
YOU HAVE TO ASK YOURSELF WHY DO
WE KEEP DOING THIS ON THE
STREETS OF ANN ARBOR?
WHY FOR HOW MANY YEARS AND MORE
RECENTLY I BROUGHT MY 11 YEAR
OLD SON TO THESE PROTESTS AND
NOW HE'S FOURTEEN AND I BROUGHT
HIM TO THE LATEST ONE IS THIS
NOW A FAMILY TRADITION?
IS THIS A TRADITION?
I DON'T WANT THIS TO BE A
TRADITION.
I'M TEACHING MY SON HOW TO
BOYCOTT.
WE DON'T GO TO MCDONALD'S
ANYMORE.
WE DON'T GO TO STARBUCKS AND I
TAX DOLLARS HERE IN AMERICA.
WE NEED TO STOP GOING TO
ISRAEL.
WHY WE ARE STEPPING OVER
HOMELESS ON THE SAME STREETS MY
FAMILY HAD TELLING SHOPS THERE
THERE ARE TENTS TENT CITIES
ALONG AGALLOCH PARK ALONG THE
RIVER THERE ARE WOMEN WHO ARE
SLEEPING UNDER THE BRIDGES
OF TWENTY THREE UNWASHED ENOUGH
THE HOMELESS PEOPLE HERE WHO
DON'T HAVE SERVICES IN ANN
ARBOR WHILE YOU SEND TWO
MILLION DOLLARS TO ISRAEL EVERY
YEAR 10 MILLION IN MICHIGAN
SENDS 10 MILLION U.S. TAX
DOLLARS TO ISRAEL EVERY YEAR
AND THAT CAN GO TO SERVE THE
HOMELESS HERE WE HAVE
REFUGEES
HERE THAT COME FROM
AFGHANISTAN.
OK, IF YOU DON'T WANT REFUGEES
HERE, STOP CREATING THEM.
STOP SENDING TEXT.
NO THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT TOPIC IS GO.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS MARIGOT AND I AM A
GRADUATE STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND A
RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
THE LAST CITY COUNCIL MEETING I
BELIEVE IT WAS SAID THAT
CALLING FOR A RESOLUTION FOR A
PERMANENT CEASE FIRE IN GAZA
WAS OUTSIDE OF YOUR
JURISDICTION.
I'M HERE TODAY TO ASK YOU TO
RECONSIDER YOUR ROLE AND
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE PEOPLE
OF GAZA AS AMERICAN BOMBS
CONTINUE TO BE DROPPED IN THE
NAME OF AN APARTHEID STATE AS A
NUMBER OF PEOPLE KILLED IN THIS
CONFLICT SURPASSES FIFTEEN
THOUSAND, I ASK YOU WHAT KIND
OF COMMUNITY DO YOU WANT TO BE
A PART OF AND TO BE RESPONSIBLE
FOR?
I KNOW THAT I WANT TO BE PART
OF THE COMMUNITY WE'RE CALLING
FOR AN END TO GENOCIDE IS NOT
CONSIDERED A DIVISIVE ACT.
I WANT TO BE PART OF A
COMMUNITY THAT IS ABLE TO SAY
WE DID EVERYTHING WE COULD.
I BELIEVE THAT IT IS OUR
RESPONSIBILITY YOUR RESPONSIBLE
TO DO SOMETHING ANYTHING TO
SAVE THE LIVES THAT CONTINUE TO
BE DESTROYED.
THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION IN
SUPPORT OF THE CEASEFIRE IN
GAZA IS JUST ONE WAY THE BARE
MINIMUM THAT YOU CAN UPHOLD
THAT RESPONSIBILITY.
I CALL UPON YOU TO FOLLOW THE
FOOTSTEPS OF DETROIT AND
OAKLAND AND USE YOUR PLATFORM
TO DENOUNCE THE GROSS INJUSTICE
THAT CONTINUES EVERY HOUR,
MINUTE AND SECOND.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOSH
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOSH WINSTON.
I'M THE RABBI OF FMF HERE IN
ANN ARBOR AND I JUST WANT TO
TAKE JUST A BRIEF MOMENT JUST
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE ENORMOUS
AMOUNT OF PAIN IN THIS ROOM.
IT WE ALL FEEL ENORMOUS AMOUNT
OF PAIN IN THIS ROOM.
I ALSO WANT TO SHARE SOME
OF THE PAIN THAT I EXPERIENCED.
I WAS IN ISRAEL JUST TWO WEEKS
TO GO.
I HEARD FROM MERAB GANIN WHO
STOOD BEFORE ME AND MY GROUP.
HER TWENTY THREE YEAR OLD
DAUGHTER ROMY AGRONIN HAD BEEN
AT THE NOVA MUSIC FESTIVAL JUST
A FEW MILES FROM GAZA.
ROMY IS THE MIDDLE CHILD IN HER
FAMILY TWO OLDER SIBLINGS AND
TWO YOUNGER ONES.
SHE WAS WORKING AS A WAITRESS
BEFORE APPLYING TO COLLEGE
BECAUSE SHE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT
SHE WANTED TO BE.
IT'S LIKE THOUSANDS OF OTHER
YOUNG PEOPLE.
SHE WENT TO THE NOVA FESTIVAL
TO CELEBRATE PEACE, TO DANCE,
TO BE A COMMUNITY.
MEIRAV ROMY'S MOTHER WAS WOKEN
BY A PHONE CALL AT SIX THIRTY
FIVE IN THE MORNING.
SHE WAS IN BED A FEW HOURS
NORTH IN THE GALIL TRYING TO
SLEEP IN ON A SHABBAT MORNING.
SHE WAS CRYING.
SHE WAS HYSTERICAL.
IT TOOK ME ABOUT FIVE MINUTES
TO CALM HER DOWN AND UNDERSTAND
WHAT WAS GOING ON.
WE HAD ONLY RECENTLY ARRIVED AT
THE PARTY JUST TWO HOURS BEFORE
SHE WOKE HER MOTHER FROM HER
SLEEP.
ROCKETS WERE FIRING BUT IT
WASN'T FIVE OR SIX LIKE THEY
WERE USED TO.
THE ROCKETS WEREN'T STOPPING.
I'VE TOLD HER TO LOOK FOR
SHELTER BUT THERE WASN'T ANY
SHELTER.
THEY WERE IN A LARGE FIELD AND
OPEN SPACE WHERE THEY WERE
DANCING TO MUSIC, ROMI SAID TO
HER TO MEIRAV MOMMY, I THINK
I'M GOING TO DIE.
I'M AFRAID I'VE TOLD HER YOU'RE
NOT GOING TO DIE.
YOU'RE GOING TO TREAT YOUR
WOUND, YOUR BULLET SHOT.
YOU'RE GOING TO BE VERY CALM.
YOU'RE GOING TO BREATHE VERY
SLOWLY.
YOU'RE GOING TO NOT BE
HYSTERICAL.
YOU'RE GOING TO BREATHE VERY
SLOWLY TO CALM YOURSELF SO YOU
WILL NOT LOSE A LOT OF BLOOD,
TIE A TOURNIQUET AROUND YOUR
ARMS.
YOU WILL NOT LOSE BLOOD.
ROMEY THERE WAS A MOMENT MERAB
TOLD US WHEN SHE UNDERSTOOD
THAT NOBODY WAS COMING THAT
NOBODY COULD HELP.
MEIRAV DECIDED SHE STARTED TO
TELL ME ROMY I LOVE YOU.
WE LOVE YOU.
YOU ARE LOVED.
YOU'RE NOT ALONE.
I'M HERE WITH YOU.
EVERYTHING WILL BE OK.
YOU'RE NOT ALONE.
I'VE CONTINUED I STARTED TO
EVERYTHING WILL BE OK.
TELL HER THAT WHAT WE'LL DO
I'VE CONTINUED I STARTED TO
WITH THE DAY SHE COMES HOME
TELL HER THAT WHAT WE'LL DO
WE'RE GOING TO GO ON TRIPS.
WITH THE DAY SHE COMES HOME
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO THE
WE'RE GOING TO GO ON TRIPS.
COFFEE SHOP WE WERE JUST AT
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO THE
FOUR DAYS AGO.
COFFEE SHOP WE WERE JUST AT
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE HERE
FOUR DAYS AGO.
CALLING FOR A CEASE FIRE AND I
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE HERE
TOO WISH FOR THE BOMBS TO END
CALLING FOR A CEASE FIRE AND I
FOR THE THE THE WAR TO STOP
TOO WISH FOR THE BOMBS TO END
HOUSE RESOLUTION SEVEN EIGHTY
FOR THE THE THE WAR TO STOP
SIX WOULD LEAVE ROAMING IN GAZA
HOUSE RESOLUTION SEVEN EIGHTY
DOES NOT CALL FOR HER RELEASE.
SIX WOULD LEAVE ROAMING IN GAZA
WE MUST WE MUST CALL FOR THE
DOES NOT CALL FOR HER RELEASE.
RELEASE OF HOSTAGES.
WE MUST WE MUST CALL FOR THE
WE MUST ENSURE THAT EVERYBODY
RELEASE OF HOSTAGES.
HAS A FAIR SHARE.
WE MUST ENSURE THAT EVERYBODY
THANK YOU.
HAS A FAIR SHARE.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SOPHIE
THANK YOU.
ASSING
CALL HER THE PHONE
NUMBERS ENDING IN SIX FOUR FOUR
.
GO AHEAD.
HI.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M A COLLECTOR FROM OUT
OF STATE TO START A NEW CAREER
AND ARBOR.
SEVENTY PERCENT OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY REGISTERED
VOTERS ARE CALLING FOR A FIRE.
OVER SIXTY PERCENT
OF REGISTERED REPUBLICANS ARE
CALLING FOR A CEASE FIRE.
MOST OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
IS CALLING FOR A CEASE FIRE YET
OUR REPRESENTATIVES ARE NOT.
IT IS ANTIDEMOCRATIC FOR OUR
REPRESENTATIVES TO DISMISS THE
CALL OF THE PEOPLE WE TRUST
THAT OUR REPRESENTATIVES WOULD
VOICE OUR OPINIONS WHEN WE
VOTED FOR THEM AND WE WILL NOT
VOTE FOR ANYBODY WHO DOES NOT
UPHOLD THE CALL OF THE PEOPLE
AMERICAN AND PARTICULARLY THE
PEOPLE OF MICHIGAN DO NOT WANT
OUR TAX MONEY TO FUND A
GENOCIDE IDENTIFIED AT 50
PERCENT OF THE GLOBAL
POPULATION UNDER THE AGE OF 15
YEAR OLD ETHEL AND TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE POPULATION UNDER
THE AGE OF FIVE BABY ONE YEAR
OLD TWO YEAR OLD IS A WAR
CHILDREN LET ME GIVE YOU THE
NUMBER.
OVER SIX THOUSAND CHILDREN HAVE
BEEN MURDERED BY FARM FROM
FUNDED BY AND FROM THE USA.
THESE ARE CHILDREN THAT HAVE
BEEN IDENTIFIED WITH NAME,
LOCATION AND IP NUMBER AND
OF FREEDOM.
PALESTINIANS ARE THE ONLY
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN FORCED TO
THROW THE CORPSES OF THEIR
CHILDREN TO THE WORLD AND WITH
THEIR NAME IN ORDER TO PROVE
THE HUMANITY MORE CHILDREN ARE
REPORTED UNDER THE RUBBLE
SUPPORTED BY THEIR FAMILIES.
10000 CHILDREN ARE ORPHANS SO
THE DOES NOT DEAD BUT HIS
FATHER IS DEAD AND HIS MOTHER
IS DEAD .
ALMOST 1000 CHILDREN HAVE LOST
LIMBS AND HAVE LOST MULTIPLE
LIMBS.
BABIES HAVE LOST LIMB THAT TOO
HIGH FOR US TO COMPREHEND.
SO IMAGINE IF YOU HAD LOST ONE
MEMBER OF YOUR FAMILY YOU WOULD
GRIEVE FOREVER FOR THAT ONE
PERSON.
NO IMAGINE THAT EVERYONE IN
YOUR FAMILY HAD BEEN KILLED.
HOW WOULD YOU FEEL?
IMAGINE THAT ALL OF YOUR
NEIGHBORS FAMILY HAD ALSO BEEN
KILLED.
NOW IMAGINE THAT ALL OF YOUR
FAMILY, YOUR NEIGHBORS, FAMILY
,YOUR WHOLE NEIGHBORHOOD HAD
BEEN KILLED.
NOW YOUR FAMILY, YOUR
NEIGHBORS, FRIENDS, YOUR WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOOD, YOUR WHOLE TOWN
HAD BEEN KILLED.
THIRTY SECONDS AND THEN ALL
OF A SUDDEN AND WERE MURDERED
WITHIN ONE MONTH.
BUT YOU WANT TO COPE WITH THE
WORLD CHILDREN.
THE POPE HAD SAID THAT THIS
BEYOND WAR THAT ISRAEL IS
COMMITTING TERRORISM THAT IS
EVIL.
HE FIRED ME.
STOP THE BOMBING.
STOP THE KILLING OF CHILDREN.
BUT IF YOU DON'T CALL FOR A
CEASE FIRE CALL FOR MORE
BOMBING, MORE KILLING, MORE
BLOOD FOR THE RESOLUTION IT AND
DEFEND AGAINST GENOCIDE AND
OUR
NEXT SPEAKER IS SIERRA
LAMBERTON
, SIERRA LAMBERT
WHERE
SHE SUPPOSED TO BE IN PERSON IS
LINBERG.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER THEN IS
RAVEN MURRAIN
.
MY NAME IS RAVEN AND I HAVE
COME TO SPEAK ON BEHALF OF MY
PALESTINIAN COMRADES.
I'M CALLING FOR AN IMMEDIATE
CEASE FIRE TO THE ISRAEL HAMAS
WAR A RETURN OF ALL THE
HOSTAGES INSIDE GAZA AND A
RELEASE OF ALL PALESTINIAN
PRISONERS WHO ARE BEING HELD IN
DETENTION WITHOUT TRIAL SINCE
OCTOBER SEVEN OVER FIFTEEN
THOUSAND CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN
KILLED IN GAZA, THE WORLD'S
LARGEST OPEN AIR PRISON WHERE
ITS RESIDENTS ARE FORBIDDEN
FROM MOVING OVER TWO POINT TWO
MILLION PEOPLE ARE CROWDED INTO
AN AREA THE SIZE OF THIS TRADE.
THEY HAVE BEEN CUT OFF FROM
VITAL SUPPLIES.
SOME HAVE BEEN RESORTED TO
DRINKING SEAWATER TO SURVIVE
.
FORTY SEVEN POINT THREE PERCENT
OF GAZA'S POPULATION IS UNDER
18.
THESE ARE TERRORISTS THAT ARE
BEING BOMBED.
THESE ARE INNOCENT CHILDREN.
THIS IS ONWE ELBRUS.
HERE'S A TWELVE YEAR OLD GIVING
YOU TO WHO HAD DREAMS
OF HITTING ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
SUBSCRIBERS.
HE WAS KILLED IN THE AIRSTRIKE
IN MID-OCTOBER.
HE WAS ONE OF THE SIX THOUSAND
CHILDREN WHO HAD BEEN KILLED
SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THIS
WAR.
SINCE THE IDF RESUMED THE
GROUND INVASION OF GAZA, THEY
HAVE BEGUN TO PUSH TOWARDS THE
SOUTH TELLING CIVILIANS TO
LEAVE THE AREA WHERE THEY
SUPPOSED TO GO THE SEA.
THEY'VE ALREADY LEFT THEIR
HOMES AND CAMPS IN THE NORTH.
WHERE WILL THEY BE ALLOWED TO
LEAVE THIS PRISON OF DEATH FOR
THE KNOCKOUTS?
SO NOW PALESTINIANS HAVE BEEN
FORCIBLY REMOVED FROM THEIR
HOMES, MURDERED IN THE STREETS
AND THROWN INTO JAILS WITHOUT
PROPER TRIAL.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO REMIND
THOSE WHO ARE QUICK TO CALL
THIS MOVEMENT ANTI SEMITIC AND
REMIND TO REMIND THAT THIS MOVE
IS NOT ANTI-SEMITIC.
THIS IS NOT A FIGHT AGAINST
JUDAISM.
THIS IS A FIGHT ABOUT ZIONISM
AND IMPERIALISM.
I CONDEMN THE ACTS
OF ANTI-SEMITIC VIOLENCE THAT
HAVE BEEN PERPETRATED AGAINST
THE JEWISH COMMUNITY.
THERE'S NO EXCUSE FOR HATE
CRIMES.
I WAS BORN IN THE CITY.
I WENT TO SCHOOL HERE AND I
LOVE ANN ARBOR.
BUT TO FACILITATE THE PROGRESS
OF THIS GREAT CITY IT IS MY
CIVIC DUTY TO HOLD MY POLITICAL
OFFICIALS ACCOUNTABLE.
I'M CALLING FOR YOUR SUPPORT
OF THE PASSAGE OF A RESOLUTION
CALLING FOR THE IMMEDIATE CEASE
FIRE IN GAZA.
WE ALL LIKE TO THINK
OF OURSELVES AS BEING ON THE
RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY.
WELL, NOW IS OUR CHANCE WHEN
FUTURE GENERATIONS LOOK BACK ON
THIS EVENT, WILL THEY BE PROUD
OF OUR ACTIONS OR WILL THEY BE
DISCUSSING BY OUR GROSS
NEGLIGENCE IN THESE TIMES
OF SUFFERING DURING THE
OUTBREAK OF THE ROUSSO
UKRAINIAN WAR WE WERE QUICK TO
CONDEMN RUSSIA'S WAR CRIMES.
WHY OR WHY?
WHEN IS IT BLACK AND BROWN
CHILDREN ARE BEING MURDERED?
WE HESITATE IN OUR
CONDEMNATION.
WHEN WILL WE SEE THESE?
WHEN WE SAW THE WAR CRIMES ARE
COMMITTED IN BOOKA WE WERE
QUICK TO CALL IT AN ACT
OF GENOCIDE.
SO WHY DON'T WE DO THE SAME
WITH GAZA?
I'LL CONCLUDE MY SPEECH WITH A
QUOTE FROM THE LATE NELSON
MANDELA A FREEDOM FIGHTER WHO
FOUGHT AGAINST APARTHEID SOUTH
AFRICA.
THE UNITED NATIONS TOOK A
STRONG STANCE AGAINST APARTHEID
AND OVER THE YEARS AND
INTERNATIONAL CONSENSUS WAS
BUILT WHICH HELPED BRING AN END
TO THIS THIS INIQUITOUS SYSTEM.
BUT WE KNOW TOO WELL THAT OUR
FREEDOM IS INCOMPLETE WITHOUT
THE FREEDOM OF PALESTINIANS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER, OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS A NUMSKULL
RESPECTED
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I STAND BEFORE YOU TODAY
HOPEFUL THAT THE CITY WILL
STAND ON THE RIGHT SIDE
OF HISTORY.
I STAND BEFORE YOU AS SOMEONE
WHO FOR THE PAST FIFTY EIGHT
DAYS AND DAILY WITH THE PEOPLE
THAT I CARE ABOUT TO ASK IF
THEY HAVE HEARD FROM THEIR
FAMILIES IN PALESTINE TO ASK IF
THEIR FAMILIES ARE STILL ALIVE.
I STAND BEFORE YOU AS AN
ALUMNUS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND A PREVIOUS
RESIDENT OF A NEIGHBOR WHO WAS
UTTERLY APPALLED AT THE
AGGRESSIVE DOXXING AND
HARASSMENT FACED BY CURRENT
UMESH STUDENTS AS WELL AS ANN
ARBOR RESIDENTS FOR SIMPLY
EXERCISING THEIR FIRST
AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
I STAND BEFORE YOU TO REMIND
YOU THIS IS NOT JUST SOME ISSUE
ACROSS THE GLOBE.
THIS HAS DIRECTLY IMPACTED YOUR
CONSTITUENTS AND OTHER
RESIDENTS.
TAX DOLLARS ARE BEING USED TO
FUND THESE INJUSTICES AND
ATROCITIES THAT WE ARE ALL
SEEING UNFOLD IN REAL TIME IN
FRONT OF OUR EYES.
I STAND BEFORE YOU TO REMIND
YOU THAT THERE IS NO DEBATE OR
DISCUSSION AMONG ACCREDITED
HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS
ACROSS THE GLOBE ABOUT WHAT IS
BEING DONE TO PALESTINIANS.
IT IS A WAR CRIME AFTER WAR
CRIME IT IS APARTHEID.
IT IS ETHNIC CLEANSING.
IT IS GENOCIDE.
I STAND BEFORE YOU TO REMIND
YOU THAT THE LIHE AMENDMENTS OR
HUMAN RIGHTS LAWS THAT PROHIBIT
THE US DEPARTMENT AND STATE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FROM
PROVIDING MILITARY ASSISTANCE
WHICH IS FUNDED WITH OUR TAX
DOLLARS TO FOREIGN SECURITY
FORCE UNITS THAT VIOLATE HUMAN
RIGHTS WITH IMPUNITY.
I STAND BEFORE YOU TO REMIND
YOU THAT ANYONE WHO SAYS THAT
THE FREEDOM AND SAFETY
OF PALESTINIAN PEOPLE IS A
THREAT TO THEIR FREEDOM AND
SAFETY IS NOT TRULY FREE
BECAUSE THEIR FREEDOM AND
SAFETY ARE CONTINGENT UPON AND
ROOTED IN THE OPPRESSION AND
SUFFERING OF ANOTHER PEOPLE.
I STAND BEFORE YOU TO URGE YOU
TO JOIN THE CHORUS OF CITIES
AND ORGANIZATIONS INCLUDING THE
UAW AND MICHIGAN'S VERY OWN
MOTOR CITY THAT ARE STANDING UP
FOR JUSTICE AND SPEAKING THERE
TRUTH TO POWER.
I STAND BEFORE YOU TO URGE YOU
TO PROTECT THE FIRST AMENDMENT
RIGHTS OF YOUR CONSTITUENTS
THAT ARE BEING VILIFIED FOR
SPEAKING OUT AGAINST INJUSTICE
TO PROTECT AND REINFORCE THE
SAFETY OF YOUR CONSTITUENTS.
AND DESPITE THE WORDS OF THE
MAYOR I STAND BEFORE YOU
OPTIMISTIC THAT THE CITY THAT
TAUGHT ME HOW TO EXPAND MY
PARADIGMS THE CITY THAT TAUGHT
ME HOW TO THINK PROGRESSIVELY,
THE CITY THAT TAUGHT ME THAT
VIBRANT, SAFE AND DIVERSE
COMMUNITY IS POSSIBLE WILL ALSO
SPEAK ITS TRUTH TO POWER BY
CALLING FOR AN END TO BLOODSHED
BY CALLING FOR AN IMMEDIATE AND
COMPLETE CEASE FIRE.
I STAND BEFORE YOU HOPEFUL THAT
THIS CITY WILL STAND ON THE
RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY AND I
SINCERELY HOPE THAT YOU DON'T
PROVE ME WRONG.
THANK YOU.
AND FOR PALESTINE.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SAMIR
USHERY
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I'M HERE TO TAKE A STAND WITH
THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE, THE
PEOPLE OF GAZA HAVE BEEN CARPET
BOMB FOR THE LAST 50 DAYS.
THE ISRAELI ATTACK ON GAZA HAS
KILLED OVER FIFTEEN THOUSAND
CIVILIANS, HALF OF WHOM ARE
WOMEN, CHILDREN, ENTIRE
FAMILIES WHO TODAY NO LONGER
EXIST.
ISRAELI DEFENSE FORCES FORCES
HAVE USED INTERNATIONALLY
BANNED AND ILLEGAL WHITE
PHOSPHORUS CHEMICALS.
THEY HAVE RAINED DOWN ON
CIVILIANS NUMEROUS TIMES DURING
THE ONGOING MASSACRES USED IN
THE MOST ADVANCED WEAPONS ON
DEFENSELESS CIVILIANS FARMS
PROVIDED BY US AND WHO YOUNG
BABIES, CHILDREN, MEN, WOMEN
AND THE ELDERLY IN GAZA.
THEY ARE COLLECTIVELY BEING
HELD IN RECORD NUMBERS EITHER
FROM THE ISRAELI BOMBS ARE
DROPPED ON THEM CONSISTENTLY OR
FROM HUNGER SICKNESS OR
INJURIES OBTAINED FROM THE
SAVAGE ATTACKS AND THE LACK
OF MEDICINE NEEDED TO TREAT
THEIR WOUNDS AS THE WORLD
WATCHES AND THE GOVERNMENTS
REMAIN IN COMPLETE SILENCE.
ISRAEL IS ETHNICALLY CLEANSED
AND THE PEOPLE OF GAZA THE
ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER
URALKALI SAID AND I QUOTE WE
ARE DEALING WITH HUMAN ANIMALS
.
WE WILL CUT FOOD.
WE WILL CUT OUR FOOD, WATER AND
FUEL.
IMAD TWO MILLION PEOPLE LIVING
UNDER A DENSELY OCCUPIED STRIP
OF LAND HALF THE SIZE OF ANN
ARBOR IN AN OPEN OPEN AIR
PRISON FOR 16 YEARS.
BUT THEIR FOOD IS RATIONED AND
HAVING TO GO THROUGH
CHECKPOINTS TO CHECK ON A
CHECKPOINT ON A DAILY BASIS.
THEIR FOOD IS CONTROLLED,
MEDICINE IS CONTROLLED,
MOVEMENT WITHIN THE STRIP IS
CONTROLLED.
THEY ARE MONITORED THROUGH
SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS DID ENTER
INTO THEIR HOMES.
ISRAELI FORCES ENTER THEIR
HOMES IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
NIGHT.
IMAGINE THE TRAUMA, THE TRAUMA
THE CHILDREN THEIR PARENTS HAVE
TO ENDURE.
THIS IS LIFE UNDER ISRAEL'S
OCCUPATION SINCE 1948 THE
PEOPLE IN GAZA ARE CONSTANTLY
TARGETED VICTIMS OF AN
APARTHEID STATE WHICH TREATS
THEM LIKE ANIMALS EVEN BEFORE
OCTOBER 7TH.
I ASK YOU THIS QUESTION WHY IS
ISRAEL GIVEN PERMISSION TO
CARRY OUT SUCH ATROCITIES WHILE
THE WORLD WATCHES IN SILENCE AS
A MASS NO MASS MURDER
OF THOUSANDS OF PALESTINIANS
CIVILIANS IS TAKING PLACE IN
LIFE STILL CONTINUES WHILE WE
IDLY WATCH THIS MUST END LIVES
MUST BE SAVED.
THE HEINOUS ATROCITIES TOWARDS
THE MEN, WOMEN AND CHILDREN IN
GAZA MUST END.
IT IS INCUMBENT UPON EVERY
HUMAN BEING WITH AN ASSET
HUMANITY, MORALITY, DIGNITY TO
CONFIRM A MEDIA CEASE FIRE TO
PUT AN END TO THIS GENOCIDE
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES
RECENTLY HATE CRIMES, HATE
CRIMES, CRIMES HAVE BEEN
COMMITTED TOWARDS PALESTINIANS.
THREE STUDENTS WERE SHOT FOR
SIMPLY WEARING A KAFIA AND
INNOCENT SIX YEAR OLD
PALESTINIAN CHILD FROM CHICAGO
DIED AFTER BEING STABBED SIX
TIMES ALONG WITH HIS MOTHER WHO
SURVIVED THE ATTACK CARE
ORGANIZATION AND RECEIVED
HUNDREDS OF COMPLAINTS FROM
ARAB AMERICANS WHO SUFFERED
ISLAMOPHOBIC THREATS.
IN FACT, SEVERAL DAYS AGO MY
NINE YEAR OLD GRANDSON WELL, I
JUST WANT TO SAY PLEASE DON'T
BE SAD AND GENOCIDE WITH YOUR
APPROVAL OF THIS RESOLUTION YOU
ARE SENDING A CLEAR MESSAGE
PEACE TO THE WORLD AND SAYING
TO THE INNOCENT MEN, WOMEN AND
CHILDREN OF GOD THAT THEY ARE
NOT AS THE ISRAELI DEFENSE
MINISTER SAID, HUMAN ANIMALS
AND THEY ARE INNOCENT LIVES ARE
PRECIOUS AND NO CRIME WILL BE
LEFT UNHEARD.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MIRIAM
MEGAHED ON
GOOD EVENING MAYOR
TAYLOR AND CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
MY NAME IS MIRIAM AND I'M
TAXPAYING CONSTITUENT OF A NO
OVER 15 YEARS AGO I MOVED TO
ANN ARBOR BECAUSE IT'S AN
EDUCATED, DIVERSE LIBERAL TOWN
WITH THE HOPES THAT MY DAUGHTER
ZAINAB AL-KHALIDI WHOM I
BELIEVE YOU KNOW PERSONALLY
TAYLOR WOULD EVENTUALLY GO TO U
OF M ZAINAB IS NOW A STUDENT
WHO HAS BEEN MOVED TO MOVE TO
SPEAK TRUTH TO POWER WHO HAS
BEEN REWARDED BY HAVING HER
HIJAB YANKED AND HAVING AND
BEING SLAMMED TO THE GROUND AND
HALF BY CAMPUS POLICE BECAUSE
SHE WAS PROTESTING FOR
PALESTINE.
IMAGINE THE RAGE I FELT AS HER
MOM.
NOW IMAGINE ALL THE PALESTINIAN
MOMS WHO HAVE TO WATCH AS THEIR
CHILDREN ARE IMPRISONED BY THE
IDF.
BUT I'M NOT HERE ON MY BEHALF.
I'M HERE ON BEHALF OF THE
THOUSANDS OF MEN WOMEN, ELDERLY
CHILDREN, ALL PALESTINIAN
CIVILIANS MURDERED BY THE
GENOCIDAL ZIONIST ISRAELI.
I'M HERE ON BEHALF OF THREE
YEAR OLD PALESTINIAN REEM THE
APPLE OF HER GRANDFATHER'S EYE,
THE SOUL OF MY SOUL AS HE
CALLED HER THE SAME GRANDFATHER
WHO FOUND HIS TWO
DEAD GRANDCHILDREN AND HIS OWN
CHILD DEAD BURIED IN THE RUBBLE
OF THEIR HOME FOR THE MERE
CRIME OF BEING PALESTINIAN IN
GAZA.
DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA HOW
DEMORALIZING IT IS
TO KNOW THAT
OUR HARD EARNED TAX DOLLARS ARE
GOING TOWARDS FUNDING THE
GENOCIDAL ISRAELI REGIME TO GO
TO SLEEP THE HORRORS
OF PALESTINIAN THAT'S FRESH IN
YOUR MIND JUST TO WAKE TO EVEN
MORE DEATH AND DESTRUCTION IN
THE MORNING?
BUT WE GET TO TAKE A BREAK.
WE GOT TO TURN OFF THE NEWS .
WE GET TO SLEEP IN THE
COMFORT OF OUR OWN HOMES.
THE PEOPLE OF GAZA DON'T GET TO
DO THAT.
I READ A POST ON INSTAGRAM
TODAY THAT REALLY STRUCK ME AND
I'M GOING TO SHARE IT WITH YOU
.
MY NAME IS AHMED.
I'M A CANADIAN CITIZEN.
I CAME TO GAZA TO VISIT AND
DEFEND MY THESIS.
MY FAMILY WAS FORCED TO SELL
WHILE I WAS VOLUNTEERING AT THE
HOSPITAL.
I COULDN'T LEAVE PEOPLE IN THE
NORTH AND SOUTH.
MY HEART NEVER LET ME TODAY WE
CAN'T HELP IT'S DO OR DIE.
WE ARE RUNNING FOR OUR LIVES
JUST TRYING TO STAY ALIVE.
I EVEN REGISTERED TO LEAVE BACK
TO CANADA BUT MY NAME WON'T
COME UP.
I CAN'T EVEN MAKE IT TO THE
SOUTH.
I CANNOT MAKE IT ANYWHERE SAFE
.
I HAVE LOST HOPE TO REUNITE
WITH MY FAMILY AND ANYONE.
WE'RE HERE ON BEHALF OF ALL THE
DREAMS, THE ALMONDS, THE
THOUSANDS OF UNNAMED VICTIMS
OF THIS GENOCIDE TO ASK YOU TO
CALL FOR A CEASE FIRE.
NOW HOW MANY MORE PEOPLE NEED
TO DIE BEFORE WE SAY ENOUGH IS
ENOUGH AND ARBER NEEDS TO DO
BETTER TO BE BETTER.
WE NEED TO LEAD BY EXAMPLE AS A
LIBERAL BEACON OF DEMOCRACY IN
MICHIGAN TO FOLLOW IN THE STEPS
OF THE UAW OTHER CITIES LIKE
DETROIT AND DEARBORN AND PASS A
CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
WE HAVE NOW REACHED THE END
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD.
PUBLIC COMMENT WILL RESUME AT
THE TOWARDS THE TAIL END OF OUR
MEETING WITH WITH NO.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCIL KAWTHAR
BRINGS
SO I'D LIKE TO THANK
EVERYBODY FOR FOR BEING HERE
TONIGHT.
I KNOW THIS IS VERY DIFFICULT
TO COME AND SPEAK TO COUNCIL
AND SO MANY OF YOU HAVE SHARED
PERSONAL STORIES OF YOUR OWN
AND PERSONAL STORIES OF OTHERS
THAT YOU CARE ABOUT AND LOVE.
I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE HOW
MANY IN OUR PEOPLE HOW MANY
PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY ARE
BEING IMPACTED BY THIS ON A
DAILY BASIS.
WE HAVE BEEN HEARING THIS FROM
OUR CONSTITUENTS, FROM
RESIDENTS, FROM CANWE COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
WE KNOW I HAVE HEARD OF THE
PAIN THAT THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS
ARE FEELING AFTER HAMAS
MURDERED AND TORTURED AND RAPED
AND TOOK HOSTAGE INNOCENT
ISRAELIS AND PROMISED
PEACE
GREAT PLACE
PLACE FOR VARIOUS
GROUPS.
EXCUSE ME PLEASE, PLEASE.
I'M REQUESTING THAT PEOPLE ON
THE QUESTION OF PEOPLE BE IN
ORDER TO SPEAK PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
WE'VE HEARD FROM CONSTITUENTS
WITH LOVED ONES.
I'VE HEARD FROM CONSTITUENTS
WITH LOVED ONES WHO ARE HELD
HOSTAGE AND FEARING FOR THEIR
SAFETY PLACE AND SO MANY OF YOU
HAVE SPOKEN TONIGHT OF THE TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF INNOCENT
CIVILIANS THAT HAVE BEEN
INJURED, KILLED AND MORE THAN A
MILLION THEY'VE HAD TO FLEE
THEIR HOMES IN GAZA.
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS SAID OVER
THE WEEKEND THAT THE SCALE
OF CIVILIAN SUFFERING AND THE
IMAGES OF VIDEOS COMING FROM
GAZA ARE DEVASTATING.
INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN LAW
MUST BE RESPECTED.
UNICEF UNICEF REPORTS THAT THE
GAZA STRIP IS ONCE AGAIN THE
MOST DANGEROUS PLACE IN THE
WORLD TO BE A CHILD.
AS FOLKS HAVE SAID TONIGHT,
OVER 6000 CHILDREN HAVE BEEN
MURDERED IN GAZA.
I CALLED CONGRESSWOMAN THIS
MORNING AND I COMMUNICATED WHAT
I'M HEARING FROM JEWISH AND MY
ARAB-AMERICAN CONSTITUENTS.
I SUPPORT HER CALL FOR A
BILATERAL CEASE FIRE AGREEMENT
TO END THE VIOLENCE BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND GAZA AS A LOCAL
ELECTED OFFICIAL, I AM
COMMITTED TO ENSURING THAT OUR
COMMUNITY IS A PLACE THAT IS
SAFE AND WHERE ALL OF OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS CAN THRIVE.
AND SINCE OCTOBER 7TH I HAVE
HEARD FROM SO MANY FROM JEWISH
AND PALESTINIAN AMERICAN FROM
ARAB AMERICAN COMMUNITY MEMBERS
THAT IT DOES NOT FEEL LIKE A
SAFE COMMUNITY ANYMORE.
YOU HAVE SPOKEN TO THIS THIS
EVENING.
PEOPLE ARE WORRIED ABOUT
GATHERING IN SCHOOLS AND PLACES
OF WORSHIP VISIBLY IDENTIFYING
THEIR RELIGION OR NATIONALITY,
EXPRESSING POLITICAL VIEWS.
WE HAVE HEARD THIS STORIES THIS
EVENING.
I HAVE HEARD OF CHILDREN BEING
CALLED BOMBERS SCHOOL AND WE
KNOW THAT WHEN PEOPLE ARE
EXPRESSING THEIR POLITICAL
VIEWS IN OUR COMMUNITY THAT
THEY ARE FACING SEVERE
REPERCUSSIONS.
I RECEIVED A CALL THIS
AFTERNOON FROM A CONSTITUENT
HAD BEEN DOCK'S FOR EXPRESSING
PRO PALESTINIAN VIEWS.
WE CAN AND WE MUST BE BETTER.
I AM ALSO HEARING A DEEP DESIRE
FOR COMPASSION AND INCREASED
TOLERANCE FROM VIEWS THAT ARE
DIFFERENT FROM ONE'S OWN.
I DON'T HAVE THE ANSWERS FOR
WHAT WE ARE FACING BUT I BUT
THERE ARE ACTIONS THAT WE AS A
LOCAL GOVERNMENT CAN TAKE TO
ADDRESS THE LOCAL ISSUES THAT
ARE HAPPENING IN OUR COMMUNITY
AND I THINK THAT THAT IS WHAT
THIS BODY IS COMMITTED TO
DOING.
I WOULD LIKE TO END BY SAYING
THAT THERE ARE ACTIONS ISSUES
THAT PEOPLE HAVE BROUGHT UP
THIS EVENING IF YOU HAVE FACED
DISCRIMINATION OR HATE CRIME,
IF YOU KNOW OF SOMEBODY WHO HAS
PLEASE REPORT IT.
PLEASE FILE A COMPLAINT WITH
OUR HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND
MAKE SURE TO REPORT THAT WITH
OUR POLICE DEPARTMENT AS WELL
AND CONTINUE TO REACH OUT TO US
AS COUNCIL
FOR THE
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL MEMBER
CASSIANO, YOU KNOW, I WANT TO
ECHO A LOT OF WHAT COUNCIL
MEMBER RGIS HAS SAID.
I THANK YOU ALL FOR COMING
TONIGHT AND FOR SHARING YOUR
PAIN.
I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE PAIN
THAT'S IN THIS ROOM FROM THE
JEWISH AMERICAN COMMUNITY AND
FROM THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
THERE'S PAIN ON BOTH SIDES
HERE.
WE HAVE TO YOU KNOW, I'M FROM A
DIVERSE FAMILY THAT HAS DIVERSE
RELIGION BOTH JEWISH AND MUSLIM
FAMILY MEMBERS.
I SEE WE'LL NEVER KNOW THE PAIN
OF WHAT'S HAPPENING ABROAD BUT
I SEE IT I SEE THE CONFLICT
THAT IT'S CREATING HERE OVER
THE LAST FEW WEEKS.
I TOO HAVE BEEN MEETING WITH
BOTH THE ARAB AMERICAN AND THE
MUSLIM AMERICA AND THE JEWISH
AMERICAN COMMUNITY JUST TRYING
TO FOCUS ON HOW WE CAN HELP HOW
WE CAN HELP TO MAKE OUR
COMMUNITY SAFE FOR EVERYONE,
HOW WE CAN HELP PEOPLE NO
LONGER FEAR INFRINGEMENTS ON
FREE SPEECH DISCRIMINATION.
I GREW UP HERE AFTER 9/11.
YOU KNOW MY DAD'S NAME IS
MUHAMMAD I I FACED A LOT
OF RACIAL SLURS.
I MY MOM WAS IN AN AIRPLANE ON
HER WAY TO A CONFERENCE FOR
CHILD PSYCHIATRY.
SHE WAS A CHILD PSYCHIATRIST
HERE AT U OF M AND THE PLANE
WAS GROUNDED AND SHE WAS
INTERROGATED BY THE FBI AND
SEPARATED FROM MY BROTHER FOR A
WHOLE DAY AND I REMEMBER US
FEARING WE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT WAS
GOING TO HAPPEN HATE AGAINST
MUSLIM PEOPLE, AGAINST JEWISH
PEOPLE.
I IT'S A PLAGUE IN OUR
COMMUNITY I TO SUPPORT DEBBIE
DINGELL, CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE
DINGELL CALL CALL FOR BILATERAL
CEASE FIRE.
I ALSO CONDEMN HAMAS AND THE
ATTACKS THAT HAPPENED IN
ISRAEL.
ALL HOSTAGES HAVE TO BE
RELEASED.
IT'S A AND AND THE PRISONER IS
NAMED
PLEASE BE QUIET.
PLEASE ALLOW A COUNCIL MEMBER
TO SPEAK.
IT IS NOT YOUR TIME AND DON'T
BE DISRUPTIVE IN THIS MEETING.
THANK YOU.
AND I CALL FOR THE RELEASE
OF ALL PRISONERS.
WE WE WE ARE NOT GOING TO BE
ABLE TO CREATE PEACE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
WE HAVE THIS SMALL COMMUNITY
HERE EXHAUSTED MADAM AND I HOPE
THAT WE CAN COME TOGETHER.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT MAKES AN
EXCEPTION IS THAT I SEE IF YOU
HAVE EXPERIENCED DISCRIMINATION
PLEASE CONTACT THE HONORABLE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
WE'RE HERE WE'RE HERE FOR THE
COMMUNITY CHESED.
PLEASE DO NOT BE DISRUPTED.
YOU ARE DISRUPTING THE MEETING
.
PLEASE DO NOT DISRUPT THE
MEETING ANYMORE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
TO A CITY COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION OF THE NUMBER
TWENTY TWENTY TWENTY THREE
REGULAR SESSION JULIE GRANT THE
HONORABLE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION MOVE BY COUNCIL
MCCONNELL SECONDED BY COUNCILOR
ACKMANN DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT'S APPROVED.
I'D LIKE TO PRESENT THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE LESLI
SCIENCE AND NATURE CENTER BOARD
OF DIRECTORS TERESA PALEVSKY
FOR MY PART I'D LIKE TO SAY
VERY BRIEFLY THAT
WHAT WE'VE
SEEN HERE AND ABROAD IS
, YOU
KNOW, SHOWS IN SO MANY RESPECTS
THE EFFECT OF DEHUMANIZATION
TARGETING DENHA TARGETING
DEHUMANIZING OF JEWS AND
MUSLIMS AND ARABS.
IT CREATES INCREDIBLY HARMFUL
DIVISIONS AMONG MEMBERS OF OF
OUR COMMUNITY WHO ARE HURTING
AND IT PUSHES GROUPS INTO THEIR
CORNERS AND IT CREATES A
PERMISSION, STRUCTURE AND
OPPORTUNITY FOR THOSE WHO HAVE
BEEN AMONG US FOR SO LONG TO
ADVANCE PREEXISTING AGENDAS
OF HATE AND WE CANNOT LET THIS
CONFLICT BUILD HERE AT HOME.
WE CANNOT HAVE A COMMUNITY
SPLIT APART.
WE CAN'T FEED OLD HATREDS WHICH
ARE GIVING ALREADY VULNERABLE
COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES THAT
WERE VULNERABLE BEFORE
OCTOBER SIX FOR MONTHS AND
YEARS AND DECADES AND MILLENNIA
FUEL TO THE EVER PRESENT FEAR
OF ANOTHER TREE OF LIFE OR
ANOTHER CHRIST CHURCH.
WE AT THE CITY ARE COMMITTED
AND WE'LL CONTINUE TO WORK WITH
ALL COMMUNITY, RELIGIOUS AND
OTHER GROUPS AS BEST WE CAN TO
ENSURE THEIR SAFETY BOTH REAL
AND PERCEIVED DURING THESE
TIMES AND THEREAFTER WE WILL DO
ANYTHING THAT WE CAN TO BRING
ABOUT COMMUNITY UNDERSTANDING
AND HEALING AND TO ECHO COUNCIL
MEMBER STATEMENTS IF AT ANY
TIME YOU BELIEVE YOU FEEL THAT
YOU HAVE BEEN AGGRESSED THAT
YOU HAVE BEEN DOCK'S THAT YOUR
ABILITY TO PROTEST HAS BEEN
INFRINGED UPON.
PLEASE COME FORWARD AND WE WILL
DO EVERYTHING WE CAN TO ASSIST
YOU THAT CHILDREN CANNOT HEAL
ITSELF AND IT'S DOING IF WHAT
THESE EVENTS THESE EVENTS TEACH
US ANYTHING.
IT'S MY BELIEF MY BELIEF THAT
WE MUST UNDERSTAND THAT THE
ONLY PATH FOR OUR COMMUNITY
WITH A PROMISE OF UNITY IS FOR
US TO RECOGNIZE AND ACT UPON
OUR COMMON HUMANITY AND THAT IS
TO SHARE AND VALIDATE AND
CRUCIALLY SPEAK THE GRIEF
OF THE OTHER EVEN AS WE GRIEVE
OURSELVES, WE AT THE CITY THAT
HARBOR OUR TASK IS TO PROMOTE
AND IMPROVE BASIC SERVICES AND
QUALITY OF LIFE AND WE DO THIS
THROUGH OUR MUNICIPAL SERVICES.
WE HAVE A ROLE TO PROMOTE
BELONGING IN THE COMMUNITY AND
AS BEST WE CAN AS I HAVE SAID
TO ENSURE THAT CONSTITUTIONAL
RIGHTS RESPECTING THE PEOPLE NO
MATTER THEIR WEALTH, ORIGIN,
STATUS, IDENTITY, RACE,
RELIGION THAT THEY KNOW DOWN
DEEP TO THEIR BONES THAT THEY
HAVE A PLACE HERE AT THE CITY
ANN ARBOR.
IT IS OUR GOAL AT THE CITY TO
ENSURE
IT'S OUR GOAL.
I BELIEVE OUR FIRST GOAL TO DO
NO HARM.
IT'S INCREDIBLY INCUMBENT UPON
THIS ISSUE WHICH IS AS MUST BE
ACKNOWLEDGED IS A LONG TERM
ISSUE OF INCREDIBLE MEANING AND
EMOTION AND COMPLEXITY AND WE
ARE NOT EQUIPPED TO CITY ARBER
TO SOLVE IT.
BUT WHAT WE ARE ABLE TO DO IS
SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS
WHO MAKING EVERY EFFORT THEY
CAN TO ADVOCATE TO THOSE IN
GOVERNMENT WITH THE POWER TO
ADDRESS THEIR CONCERNS AND
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING TO
DO
MAN
THEN YOU ARE YOU ARE
DISRUPTING THE MEETING.
YOU ARE DISRUPTING THE MEETING
THEM PLEASE PLEASE.
IT'S DISRUPTING THE MEETING
.
WE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, IT'S SIX RESOLUTION TO
REVIVE THE EARLY VOTING CENTER
AVAILABILITY FOR THE 2004
ELECTION CYCLE TO INCLUDE
CITYWIDE ACCESS AT ALL
LOCATIONS MOVE BY COUNCILOR
BRIGG SECONDED BY COUNCILOR
DISH DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
IT'S APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING PEOPLE NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE TO
SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING BUT
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY
THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA
SPEAKERS IN ALL CASES WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME BOTH HERE AND
ONLINE WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE REMARKS AND THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING AMENDMENTS TO THE
APPROVED PUDI PLAN DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT LOCKWOOD OF ANN ARBOR
PD ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS TWO ONE NINE FIVE E
ELSWORTH IS THERE ANYONE IN THE
HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
TO AGENDA ITEM AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
PLEASE JUST COME FORWARD AND DO
SO
.
NO SECOND WORK THIS SETBACK
ADJUSTMENTS TO THE LOCKWOOD
PROJECT ARE VERY MINOR BUT IF
YOU'LL ALLOW ME SOME LEEWAY I'D
LIKE TO TALK ABOUT A MUCH
BIGGER PROBLEM RELATED TO THIS
BUILDING WHICH IS UNDER
CONSTRUCTION THE SUBJECT MATTER
WE MUST WE HAVE TO HEW TO THE
PROPOSAL AT HAND.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
THANK YOU.
I'LL BE BRIEF.
I SPOKE AT THE GROUNDBREAKING
FOR THIS.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD PROJECT
OVER THERE AND I WAS REALLY
DISAPPOINTED TO SEE THAT REALLY
DISAPPOINTED TO SEE THAT THEY
BUILT IT THIS WAY AND I HAD A
LOT OF FOLKS IN THE COMMUNITY
COME UP TO ME WHEN WE GO OVER
THE AGENDA THEY SAID
PERTINACITY SAY TO THEM HEY,
TEAR THAT THING DOWN MAN.
YOU BUILD IT FOREFOOT INTO THE
SIXTY EIGHT FOOT WHATEVER IT IS
HE'S MATEAR DOWN BUT OF COURSE
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO TEAR IT
DOWN YOU SAY OK WE'LL DO
SOMETHING ELSE FOR THE
COMMUNITY.
WE CAN'T DO THAT YOU KNOW YOU
CAN'T DO THAT YOU CAN'T GO BACK
AND FORTH ON THAT BUT I DON'T
THINK I SHOULD JUST GO BY WITH
A NOD.
I THINK WE SHOULD RECOGNIZE
THAT WE EXPECT CERTAIN THINGS.
I MEAN IT COST ME TWENTY FOUR
HUNDRED DOLLARS TO PROVE TO THE
CITY THAT MY HOUSE WAS NOT 13
INCHES IN FRONT OF THE
AGGREGATE HAD SET BACK SO THAT
I COULD PUT A LITTLE BUMP UP ON
THE TOP.
I WASN'T EVEN MAKING MY
FOOTPRINT BIGGER BUT THESE GUYS
JUST OK IT'S OK NOW WE NEED
THAT BUILDING YOU KNOW WE
REALLY NEEDED THAT BUILDING AND
IT'S MUCH BETTER WHERE IT IS
NOW THAN WHERE IT WAS GOING TO
BE ON THE WEST SIDE.
SO I'M ALL FOR IT BUT I THINK
IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT SOMETHING
LIKE THIS SLIPS THROUGH THE
CRACKS AND YOU DON'T TRY AND
GET ANYTHING FOR IT.
AND I'M ALSO NO DOUBT YOU ARE
AWARE THAT I AM VERY
DISAPPOINTED AND I THINK
EVERYBODY HERE SHOULD KNOW THAT
WHEN YOU JUST APPROVED
COUNCILWOMAN FORMER
COUNCILWOMAN JULIE GRANT FOR
THE TRANSIT BOARD YOU PROVED
SOMEBODY ONE TIME AT A MEETING
TURN TO MY PALESTINIAN AMERICAN
COLLEAGUE, SIR SAID IF YOU
DON'T AGREE WITH ME, I'M GOING
TO TURN INTO A JUDICIAL
CIRCUITS.
THAT'S WHAT YOU SAID.
ARE YOU AND YOU ALL APPROVED
BEFORE YOU APPROVE OF THAT KIND
OF SPEECH, YOU'RE OUT OF ORDER.
THANK YOU.
YOU TOO, MR. TAYLOR.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
CHAIRMAN.
I DON'T SEE YOU MORE AS AN
EMPTY SUIT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
MARY DID NOT SEE ANY CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP FOR THIS
HEARING BUT AND SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
THAT ONE SEVEN OUT FOUR AND
FIVE THAT ONE EIGHT BUT SIX
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
IF THE CODE OF THE CITY BANABA
PREMIUMS D1 D2 FLOOR AREA RATIO
IS THERE ANYONE WHO LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING IN
HOUSE
.
THANK YOU CAN TARAKAN SECOND
WORD AGAIN?
I SEEM TO HAVE LOST MY NOTES ON
THIS ONE SO WHILE I LIVE AT
HOME THIS ORDINANCE WOULD I
REMEMBER REMOVE THE FOUR YEAR
RATIO ELEMENT OF FOUR D1 AND D2
.
THE HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS WOULD
REMAIN I THINK SIX HUNDRED
FIFTY TO TWELVE UNDER FIFTY ONE
MIGHT BE WRONG AND THE IDEA
HERE IS TO REMOVE PREMIUMS AS
WELL FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR
SUSTAINABILITY BECAUSE THEY
HAVEN'T BEEN EFFECTIVE AND JUST
GRAB THE EXTRA HEIGHT BECAUSE
THAT WILL IMPROVE AFFORDABILITY
BY ADDING SUPPLY TO THE CITY
HOUSING STOCK.
NOW HERE'S MY VIEW THIS IS A
GOOD IDEA.
HOWEVER, IF YOU KEEP THIS YOU
MUST AS SOON AS POSSIBLE CHANGE
THE DEFINITION OF HEIGHT
EXCEPTIONS IN CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE RIGHT NOW THE
CODE SPECIFIES THAT YOU CAN GO
AN EXTRA THIRTY PERCENT HIGHER
ABOVE THE AFOREMENTIONED LIMITS
IF YOU MEET CERTAIN STANDARDS
FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND
SUSTAINABILITY NOW THE WAY THIS
IS DEFINED FOR SUSTAINABILITY
IS SIXTY PERCENT OF THE ROOF
AREA MUST BE COVERED WITH SOLAR
PANELS OR THE BUILDING MUST BE
BUILT IN THE WAY THAT IT CAN BE
ELECTRIFIED IN THE FUTURE.
THIS LANGUAGE IS ALMOST
MEANINGLESS.
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS CHANGE
THE DEFINITION SO THAT IT'S IN
ALIGNMENT WITH OUR ZERO CLIMATE
PLAN AND THIS ADDITIONAL THIRTY
PERCENT EXCEPTION EXCEPTIONS
SHOULD ONLY BE GRANTED IF THE
BUILDING IS FULLY ELECTRIFIED
AND AND PROVIDES AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BOTH THIS WAY THERE'S
NO LOOPHOLE FOR A DEVELOPER TO
GET AROUND IT IF WE'RE GOING TO
GO HIGHER THAN THE OF TO
SPECIFY AND WE SHOULD APPLY OUR
CURRENT CLIMATE STANDARDS
BASICALLY YOU CAN BUILD YOUR
WAY OUT OF A HOUSING CRISIS AND
THIS ORDINANCE THAT YOU HAVE
TONIGHT MAY HELP YOU THAT SO
YOU SHOULD VOTE FOR IT BUT AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE REVISIT
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE DEFINITIONS
FOR HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS AND MAKE
THEM MUCH STRONGER.
THAT WOULD BE THE ONLY WAY TO
BE CONSISTENT WITH OUR ZERO.
IN FACT THIS IS A SYMPTOM OF A
LARGER PROBLEM.
OUR CITY CODE IS COMPLETELY
MISALIGNED WITH OUR CLIMATE
ACTION GOALS AND THIS IS JUST
ONE EXAMPLE.
SO I REALLY THINK THAT THIS
NEEDS TO BE LOOKED AT CLOSELY.
I SUPPORT A YES VOTE TONIGHT
BUT PLEASE CONSIDER WHAT ELSE
YOU NEED TO DO ON THIS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
ADAM DISCOVERED YOUR COMMENT.
HI, THIS IS ADAM SAVAGE IN
FOURTH ORDER.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
THE PREMIUMS REAL QUICK.
THE PREMIUMS WERE
WELL-INTENTIONED BUT THEY
DIDN'T WORK WHEN SOMETHING
DOESN'T WORK WE NEED TO BE
WILLING TO ADJUST COURSE THE
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE OF THESE
PREMIUMS WAS SIMPLY THAT LESS
HOUSING GOT BUILT EXACERBATING
OUR HOUSING CRISIS AND AS FAR
AS I CAN FIND THE PREMIUMS DID
NOT RESULT IN CREATING ANY NEW
UNITS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
IT'S NOT WORKING.
IT'S TIME TO CHANGE COURSE AND
FIX THIS.
PLEASE VOTE YES ON BE2.
THANK THANK YOU
ADAM GOODMAN DO
YOU HAVE A COMMENT AND I'M
SPEAKING TO YOU FROM THE FIFTH
WARD.
I ALSO AM WANT TO SPEAK IN
FAVOR OF THIS CHANGE.
I KIND WORKED AND I HAVE SEEN
SOME CONCERN EXPRESSED THAT
REMOVING YOUR PREMIUMS AND
UNCAPPING FLOOR AREA RATIO
WOULD REMOVE INCENTIVES FOR
DEVELOPERS TO DO THINGS THAT
OUR COMMUNITY WANTS WANTS
OF OUR DEVELOPMENT.
BUT WHAT IS A FALSE CHOICE
BECAUSE THE PREMIUMS HAVEN'T
WORKED ACCORDING TO THE
CANDIDATES MONTHS BEFORE THE
NOVEMBER 6TH MEETING MY IF I
UNDERSTOOD IT CORRECTLY NOT A
SINGLE PROJECT HAS BEEN
COMPLETED OR EVEN PROPOSED
DOWNTOWN USING THE POST TWENTY
EIGHTEEN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PREMIUM AND ACCORDING TO THE
ATTENDER RESPONSE MEMO FOR
TONIGHT'S STAFF CONCLUSION IS
THAT AND I QUOTE THE PREMIUMS
DID NOT RESULT IN MANY
AFFORDABLE UNITS FOR
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND
YES, THEY'VE LARGELY HALTED
PROGRESS ON BUILDING ANY NEW
HOUSING DOWNTOWN.
WE ABSOLUTELY DO NEED MORE
HOUSING AT ALL INCOME LEVELS.
SO THE TRUE TEST IS WHETHER OR
NOT HOUSING FOR OUR WORKERS,
STUDENTS OR OTHER COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WILL BE BUILT HERE OR
BUILT IN FAR FLUNG PLACES LIKE
LIVINGSTON COUNTY.
THE TRUE TEST IS WHETHER FOLKS
WILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
LIVE SUSTAINABLE LIVES IN THE
CITY NEAR WHERE THEY WORK,
STUDY ETC. OR WHETHER THEY'LL
BE PUSHED INTO THE AND CAR
DEPENDENT FRENCH.
BY THE WAY, YOU REST ASSURED
THAT THE LATTER OPTION WILL NOT
BE ANY REASONABLE DEFINITION
OUR COMMUNITY MIGHT SET FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
NOW THIS ISN'T TO SAY THAT THE
IDEA OF PREMIUMS OR DEVELOPMENT
INCENTIVES COULD NEVER WORK.
IN FACT, EVEN IF YOU MAKE THIS
CHANGE WE DO STILL HAVE WHAT IS
ESSENTIALLY A HIGH PREMIUM FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS.
I HOPE THIS CHANGE WILL MAKE IT
MORE LIKE THESE INCENTIVES WILL
ACTUALLY GET USED BECAUSE THE
CURRENT SYSTEM IS A SORT
OF PRESENTING RESTRICTIONS THAT
REGULATE BOTH FOR AREA RATIO
AND HEIGHT AND THESE
REGULATIONS ACTUALLY END UP
CONFLICTING WITH EACH OTHER
SUCH THAT IT CAN BE DIFFICULT
FOR DEVELOPERS TO MAKE USE
OF ALL OF THE FOUR AREA
INCENTIVES IF THEY HIT THE
HEIGHT LIMIT AND DIFFICULT TO
USE THE INCENTIVES IF THEY HIT
THE FLOOR AREA LIMIT
SIMPLIFYING OUR CODE TO
REGULATE AND PROVIDE INCENTIVES
AROUND ONLY ONE OF THESE THINGS
WOULD BE A MAJOR IMPROVEMENT
AND SIMPLIFICATION MAKE IT MUCH
MORE LIKELY THAT OUR CITY WILL
BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE THE GOALS
THAT WE'VE SET UP.
THAT MAY BE CORRECT BY THE WAY
THAT THESE INCENTIVES COULD USE
FURTHER REFINEMENT BUT THAT'S
NOT WHAT'S HAPPENED TONIGHT.
AND SO I REALLY HOPE THAT YOU
WILL APPROVE THIS CHANGE
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON'T SEE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH OUR HANDS UP
BRANDON DEMCHUK, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
I ENTRAPMENT PROBLEM WITH LARRY
TOWNEND WORD FOR I WILL KEEP
THIS QUICK.
THESE CRIMINALS HAVE PRODUCED
ZERO UNITS OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SINCE BEING CAST IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
THEY'RE WORKING UNLESS YOU
CONSIDER A SUCCESS TO BE
BUILDING LESS HOUSING.
I BELIEVE THAT BLOCKING HOUSING
IS THE GOAL OF SOME BUT WE ARE
IN A HOUSING CRISIS AND WE NEED
TO STOP DISCOURAGING OUR
HOUSING CONSTRUCTION TO
PRESERVE A PROVEN INEFFECTIVE
PREMIUM SCHEME.
I APPRECIATE THAT WE TRIED BUT
IT DIDN'T WORK.
I FIND IT ON THE STAFF REPORT
RECOMMENDS THAT WE DO THIS TO
SIMPLIFY EXPECTATIONS AND
BETTER ENCOURAGE DOWNTOWN
DENSITY.
IN OTHER WORDS, THIS CHANGE
WILL ALLOW US TO BUILD MORE
PRODUCTIVE, MORE PREDICTABLY
BUILT HOUSING THAT MATCHES THE
CHARACTER OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND WILL HAVE NO NEGATIVE
EFFECT ON THE NUMBER
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
BUILT SINCE IT HAS NO EFFECT ON
THAT SO FAR SO FAR WITH THAT
RECOMMENDATION THE HEIGHT BASED
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
CONSTRUCTION BONUSES HAVE BEEN
MORE EFFECTIVE AND ARE SO
AVAILABLE.
PLEASE APPROVE BE2 TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK
YOU.
DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS ON
THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HERE.
NUMBER THREE AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE ONE ZERO TWO
AND FIVE ONE SEVEN OR CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TITLE FIVE THE CODE OF THE
STEVAN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE DC ONE
STEP BACK.
THAT'S CORRECT.
OKAY, I WANT TO START BY
PROVIDING A DEFINITION THAT I'M
GOING TO USE FOR THE TERM
CORRUPTION SO WE DON'T HAVE ANY
CONFUSION LIKE WE DID LAST
TIME.
I USE THE TERM AND I'M LOOKING
AT A TRANSPORTATION
INTERNATIONAL WEBSITE WE DEFINE
CORRUPTION AS THE ABUSE
OF ENTRUSTED POWER FOR PRIVATE
GAIN.
IT DOESN'T SAY PERSONAL GAIN
BUT PRIVATE GAIN CORRUPTION
ERODES TRUST WEAKENS DEMOCRACY
HAMPERS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AND FURTHER EXACERBATES
INEQUALITY, POVERTY, SOCIAL
DIVISION AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL
CRISIS.
CORRUPTION ADAPTS TO DIFFERENT
CONTEXTS AND CHANGING
CIRCUMSTANCES.
IT CAN BE EVOKED IN RESPONSE TO
CHANGES TO RULES, LEGISLATION
AND EVEN TECHNOLOGY.
TODAY WE HAVE RULES AND THIS IS
A MEASUREMENT THAT'S BASED ON
THE CURB.
NOW A CURB PROVIDES THE
OPPORTUNITY TO MAXIMIZE THE
BUILDABLE AREA OF A LOT.
I FIRST HEARD OF THIS IDEA
OF USING THE CURB RATHER THAN
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY FROM A
DEVELOPER AND I THOUGHT WOW
THAT'S REALLY STRANGE BUT
STRANGER THINGS HAVE HAPPENED
HERE CITY COUNCIL.
SO WHAT WE'RE CONFUSING IS SITE
DISTANCE IS AN ENGINEERING
STANDARD.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO DO WITH
ZONING AND THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY AND LOT LINES ARE
LEGALLY ESTABLISHED POINTS ON A
MAP AND A CURB IS A HUMANLY
CONSTRUCTED PIECE OF CONCRETE
RATE AND AS WE KNOW CURBS CAN
MOVE.
WE SAW THAT ON ERHART AND IN
FACT CURBS CAN JUST DISAPPEAR
LIKE WE SAW ON STATE.
SO HOW CAN WE POSSIBLY USE A
CURB FOR DETERMINING THE
BUILDABLE AREA OF LOT OTHER
THAN IF WE'RE DOING A GIVEAWAY
TO DEVELOPERS?
I MEAN IT IS IT IS JUST A CRAZY
IDEA AND I JUST WANT TO SAY
THAT THIS AMENDMENT HAS NOTHING
TO DO WITH SAFETY AND IT'S
EXPLOITING THE TERM AND I
REALLY AM TROUBLED WHEN WE USE
THE SAFETY OF OUR CITIZENS FOR
SUCH A CORRUPT ACT AS THIS.
AGAIN, CORRUPTION IS THE ABUSE
OF ENTRUSTED POWER FOR PRIVATE
GAIN.
THIS IS PRIVATE AS IN DEVELOPER
AND I DON'T HAVE MUCH TIME LEFT
BUT A COMMUNITY THAT ACTUALLY
REFUSES TO REVISE CHAPTER FORTY
AFTER SIGNIFICANT WORK WENT
INTO IT.
THAT'S THE SITE DIST. BECAUSE
THEY WERE WAITING FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
SOMETHING OR OTHER WHICH IS
ZONING THAT DIDN'T HAVE
ANYTHING TO DO WITH SITE
DISTANCE A COMMUNITY THAT
REFUSES TO TRIM VEGETATION
INTERSECT WHERE THERE ARE SITE
DISTANCE PROBLEMS.
SO ANYWAY I DON'T SUPPORT THIS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE IN I WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
.
ADAM GOODMAN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT BY ADAM GOODMAN AGAIN,
I WAS HOPING TO SPEAK ABOUT
THIS BUT I I CAN BE SOMEWHAT
SHOULD POINT OUT THAT NY
STADIUM WHICH WAS KIND OF THE
IMPETUS FOR THIS CHANGE THIS IS
GOING TO REDUCE THE BUILDABLE
AREA FOR DEVELOPERS ON A
CORRIDOR.
SO I UNDERSTAND HOW THIS IS
CORRUPTION AND THE PROBLEM WITH
THIS WITH THIS CHANGE WHICH IS
SIMPLY THAT IT'S A WASTE
OF TIME AND WE SHOULD HAVE BEEN
REZONING EVERYTHING SEE ONE
MUCH FASTER.
BUT NOW THAT WE'RE NOW THAT
WE'RE HERE IT'S FINANCED BY
THAT'S ALL.
THANKS.
THANK YOU
.
ALEX LOWE.
THE OTHER COMMENT GO AHEAD
,
ALEX.
THE OTHER COMMENT I CAN'T HEAR
YOU
HERE.
THE CALLERS PHONE IS UNMUTED
BUT HE CAN'T HEAR
ALEX LOTI
OF A COMMENT
.
WE ARE REGRETTABLY UNABLE TO
HEAR YOU.
MR. LOEB.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
ONLINE?
MARY DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON LINE FOR THIS CALL.
YOU KNOW, ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PC NO FOR
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND THE ZONING
THAT BEING PART OF SECTION FIVE
TEND TO HAVE CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE, TITLE FIVE, THE CODE OF
THE CITY THEN BANABA REZONING
EIGHT POINT THREE ACRES FROM
PARKING DISTRICT TO SEA TO BE
BUSINESS SERVICE DISTRICT NINE
HUNDRED BRIARWOOD CIRCLE.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
THANKS MAYOR TURNER CAN GO
SECOND WORD AGAIN.
I SPOKE ON THIS AT FIRST
READING AS YOU REMEMBER THIS
EXCELLENT CAREER DEVELOPMENT
WAS SUPPOSED TO BE ALL ELECTRIC
EXCEPT FOR BACKUP GET GAS
GENERATOR.
BUT THE DEVELOPER TOLD PLANNING
COMMISSION IN OCTOBER THAT HE
COULD NOT GUARANTEE ENOUGH
CAPACITY TO SERVE 100 PERCENT
ELECTRIC BUILDING.
SO THIS PROJECT MIGHT USE
FOSSIL GAS FOR HEATING AFTER
ALL THE GAS OF COURSE MAYBE
THIS IS NOT RESOLVED.
HOPEFULLY WE'LL HEAR ABOUT THIS
TONIGHT BUT IT'S BEEN AN ISSUE
FOR OTHER PROJECTS ALL OVER THE
CITY AND IT'S UNACCEPTABLE
MONOPOLY ELECTRIC UTILITIES
LIKE DTT ARE LEGALLY OBLIGATED
TO PROVIDE SERVICE TO ALL
CUSTOMERS WITHIN THEIR SERVICE
TERRITORY EVEN THEY MUST DO
THIS AT A LOSS THEY CAN'T JUST
SAY SORRY, NOT ENOUGH CAPACITY
.
WHAT MOST CONFUSES ME IS THAT
DTD BRIARWOOD SUBSTATION IS
AMONG ITS NEWEST.
IN FACT IT FEEDS THE REST
OF THE CITY IS WHAT DTG
ENGINEER MIKE WITKOWSKY TOLD
ENERGY COMMISSION IN AUGUST
QUOTE ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF TOWN
NEARBY HAYWARD IS ACTUALLY ONE
OF OUR PROBABLY MOST STATE
OF THE ART SUBSTATIONS WE HAVE
RIGHT NOW.
IT'S A COMBINED STATION WHERE
AGAIN ITC BRINGS IN ONE HUNDRED
LEVEL TRANSMISSION.
WE STEP IT DOWN TO 20 40 KB SUB
TRANSMISSION THAT 40 HAVE
TRANSMISSION THEN GOES OUT AND
FEEDS A GOOD MAJORITY OF THE
SUBSTATIONS IN ANN ARBOR AS
WELL AS SEVERAL OTHER STATIONS
AROUND THE CITY.
BUT THAT'S SUBSTATION NEARBY
WHERE IT ALSO NOW HAS A HUNDRED
TWENTY TO THIRTEEN POINT TWO
CONNECTION POINT WHERE WE SERVE
THE BRIARWOOD AREA.
THE THIRTEEN POINT REFERS TO
THE MODERN THIRTEEN POINT TWO
KILOVOLT DISTRIBUTION LINES SO
SADLY LACKING ELSEWHERE IN THE
CITY BRIARWOOD ASK THEM HOW CAN
IT BE THE DC CAN'T MEET DEMAND
THERE?
THIS BEGS AN EXPLANATION.
I ALSO HAVE TO WONDER IF HE IS
TRYING TO CHARGE THIS DEVELOPER
NOMINALLY FOR ELECTRICITY
UPGRADES UNDER CIC WHICH STANDS
FOR CONTRIBUTION TO NATIVE
CONSTRUCTION THE ICAC AS A WAY
TO MAKE SURE REPAIRS WEREN'T
SUBSIDIZING URBAN SPRAWL.
IT WASN'T ABOUT INFILL PROJECTS
BECAUSE THE ASSUMPTION WAS THAT
THERE WOULD BE ENOUGH CAPACITY
TO SERVE THOSE.
NO ONE TOOK NEGLECT OF ITS
SYSTEM INTO ACCOUNT.
I SINCERELY HOPE THIS
DEVELOPMENT IS NOT FORCED TO
USE GAS AGAINST ITS WILL AND I
ASK YOU COUNCIL TO PLEASE
ADDRESS THIS OVERALL CAPACITY
ISSUE NOW BEFORE WE HAVE MORE
CASES LIKE THIS.
WHERE DID FORCING DEVELOPERS
BUILD WITH GAS IN DIRECT
VIOLATION OF OUR CITY'S H0
CLIMATE PLAN?
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
WHERE I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP FOR THIS
HEARING
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER FIVE AND
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE NINE
HUNDRED BY A CIRCLE SITE ON A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AT NINE
HUNDRED BRIARWOOD CIRCLE.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE THAT
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
THANKS.
I NEVER MISS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
DO I CAN GARBA AGAIN.
YEAH, THAT'S FAIR TO SAY THAT
THIS IS AN EXCELLENT
DEVELOPMENT THERE THERE SIMON
PROPERTY GROUP IS GOING TO BE
DEMOLISHING THE OLD SEARS
BUILDING AND PUTTING IN A
SPORTING GOODS STORE A GROCERY
AND I BELIEVE THREE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY UNITS OF APARTMENT RENTAL
HOUSING AND I THINK THERE'S A
GREAT REVISIONING OF BRIARWOOD
PARTIAL BUT IT'S A START AND
THIS DEVELOPER CAME IN
DETERMINED TO BUILD TO OUR ZERO
SPECIFICATIONS ALL ELECTRIC AND
AS I SAID IN MY LAST COMMENT, I
JUST REALLY, REALLY SINCERELY
HOPE THAT THIS CAPACITY ISSUE
DOWN THERE HAS RESOLVED AND I
REALLY HOPE THAT IF IT'S NOT
THAT YOU HOLD ITS FEET TO THE
FIRE AND GET THEM TO CHANGE
THEIR POLICIES AND PROVIDE THE
CAPACITY THAT IS A MONOPOLY
UTILITY THEY'RE REQUIRED TO I
BELIEVE UNDER THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE MIND I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
AND I'M GOOD.
GOODMAN DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
ONE MORE TIME GENERALLY
SPEAKING, I THINK THIS IS A
GREAT PROJECT.
I HAVE ONE SMALL QUIBBLE WITH
IT WHICH IS THAT IF I
UNDERSTOOD THE SAME THING AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT DIRECTLY
TO THE DEVELOPER IS PROPOSING
TO TAKE A SECTION PRIOR CIRCLE
AND MAKE IT FALAISE BY
POLLING'S THE CITY RECENTLY
PASSED A RESOLUTION STATING A
POLICY THAT WE SHOULD NOT HAVE
MULTI-LINE WROTE YOU SHOULD NOT
APPROACH WITH MORE THAN ONE
LANE OF TRAFFIC IN EACH
DIRECTION AND YOU KNOW THIS IS
THIS IS A NECESSARY STEP TO
ACHIEVE OUR VISION ZERO GOALS
BECAUSE MULTILINE ROADS
COMPRISE A YOU KNOW,
DISPROPORTIONATE FRACTION
OF THE INJURIES AND DEATHS THAT
HAPPEN ON THE ROADS IN ARBOR.
SO I DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY THIS
IS FOUR LANES INSTEAD OF THREE
.
I ALMOST DON'T HAVE DATA TO
SUPPORT THIS BUT I ALMOST FEEL
LIKE FOUR LANES COULD BE WORSE
THAN FIVE BECAUSE GETTING RID
OF THE DEDICATED CENTER TURN
LANE I WAS INFLATING THE
PROJECT AND THE CHANGES ARE
PROBABLY GOING TO BE MADE AT
THIS POINT.
BUT I GOT TO SAY PEOPLE WILL
LOOK MORE CAREFULLY THIS AND IN
ANY FUTURE DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS
THAT INVOLVE SOMETHING LIKE
THANK YOU
I WHERE I DON'T HAVE
ANY OTHER CALLERS ON THE LINE
FOR THE HERE
SEE NOW AND
FURTHER THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US TO REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF NOVEMBER.
TWENTY TWENTY TWENTY THREE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
SACRIFIED COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ON
FABER POST.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED.
WE WANT AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
AMENDMENT TO THE APPROVED PLAN
UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
LOCKWOOD EVENT ARBOR PROPOSED
ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS TO ONE NINE FIVE
EAST ELLSWORTH MOVE BY
COUNCILOR DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CATHY HADWIN
DISCUSSION PLEASE A B1 COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
THIS IS A VERY SIMPLE
ADJUSTMENT THAT WE'RE ASKED TO
MAKE A SURVEY CONDUCTED BY THE
DEVELOPER DURING CONSTRUCTION
REVEALED THAT THE BUILDING
FOUNDATION EXTENDED SLIGHTLY
OVER THE EAST AND SOUTH
SETBACKS BECAUSE THE FOUNDATION
IS LAID AND THE BUILDING IS
UNDER CONSTRUCTION, IT MAKES
MORE SENSE TO MAKE SLIGHT
REDUCTIONS TO THOSE SETBACKS
THAN IT THAN IT DOES TO REPAIR
THE FOUNDATION.
THERE IS NO NEW CONSTRUCTION
PROPOSED.
THERE ARE NO OTHER CHANGES TO
THE SITE PLAN OR ZONING
REGULATIONS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF B1 OR
FAVOR POSED.
IT'S PROVED TO BE TO AN
AUDIENCE AMEND SECTION SEVEN
OF AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION
FIVE ONE SEVEN FOUR AND FIVE
ONE EIGHT EIGHT SIX OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE FIVE DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF STEPHEN ARBER MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER I WAS MY
CUSTOMER BRIGGS DISCUSSION
PLEASE BE TO CAFARDI AS SOME
OF YOU HEARD IF YOU WERE
LISTENING TO THE PUBLIC HEARING
THIS IS AN EXCITING CHANGE.
WE ARE PROPOSING TO ELIMINATE
THE FLOOR AREA RATIO PREMIUMS
AND FLOOR AREA RATIO
RESTRICTION THAT HAD THAT WERE
ENACTED FOR DOWNTOWN IN 2019 SO
THAT DEVELOPMENT IN THE CITY'S
DOWNTOWN ZONING DISTRICTS D1
AND D2 WILL BE REGULATED SOLELY
BY HEIGHT.
IT WAS CONFUSING TO REGULATE
THEM BOTH BY HEIGHT AND FLOOR
AREA RATIO.
SO THE HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS IN
D1 ARE ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
AND IN SOME PLACES ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY.
IN THESE TWO IT'S MOSTLY SIXTY
.
IT IS SIXTY FEET.
THE PROPOSED PAYMENTS WILL MAKE
THE PROCESS FOR DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT MORE PREDICTABLE,
EFFICIENT AND TRANSPAC IT
BECAUSE REGULATING
SIMULTANEOUSLY BY HEIGHT AND
FLOOR AREA RATIO ISN'T DONE
ANYWHERE ELSE FOR GOOD REASON
IT IS CONFUSING PREMIUMS AS
MANY CALLERS STATED CORRECTLY
DID NOT RESULT IN STIMULATING
ANY NEW UNITS OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
THIS ORDINANCE CHANGE
REPRESENTS A CHANGE OF STRATEGY
TO SUPPORT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
THANKS TO THE VOTERS THAT NABIL
WHO APPROVED IN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILJAN 20-20 TO EVERY
NEW DEVELOPMENT IN THIS CITY
PAYS PROPERTY TAX A PORTION
OF WHICH GOES INTO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
THAT AMOUNT CAN BE SIGNIFICANT
FOR A MULTISTORY BUILDING IN
DOWNTOWN WHERE PROPERTIES WHERE
LAND IS QUITE VALUABLE HEIGHT
EXCEPTIONS WILL REMAIN.
I AGREE THAT THE SUSTAINABILITY
MEASURES REQUIRED TO QUALIFY
FOR HIGH TECH EXCEPTIONS NEED
FURTHER REFINEMENT AS MR.
GARBER POINTED OUT, PLANNING
STAFF HAS COMMITTED TO MAKE
THOSE REFINEMENTS IN THE EVENT
THAT PRECISE PLANNING
CONVERSATIONS WITH DEVELOPERS
INDICATES A SIGNIFICANT
INTEREST IN USING THEM
OTHERWISE WE'LL PUT THAT ON THE
BACK BURNER WHILE WE WORK ON
THE COMPREHENSIVE FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S I SAY THIS IS THE ITEM
ON THE AGENDA THAT PROBABLY I
STRUGGLED WITH THE MOST.
I SPENT A LOT OF TIME GOING
THROUGH THE REPORTS AND
PRESENTATIONS ASKING QUESTIONS
OF STAFF BECAUSE IN SOME WAYS
IT FELT COUNTERINTUITIVE TO ME
BASED ON WHAT OUR OUR GOALS
ARE.
BUT DESPITE THAT IT'S PRETTY
CLEAR THAT OVER AND OVER AGAIN
WE'RE HEARING FROM STAFF, FROM
THE CONSULTANTS, FROM PLANNING
COMMISSION THIS JUST WASN'T
WORKING.
WE WEREN'T GETTING WE WEREN'T
ACHIEVING OUR GOALS OF GETTING
MORE AFFORDABLE UNITS, MORE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS.
AND SO I DO THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT THAT WE YOU KNOW, WE
FOCUS IN ON SOME OF THE
ELEMENTS THAT WE DO HAVE WHICH
IS THE RIGHT INCENTIVES THAT WE
HAVE IN PLACE.
I AGREE WITH MR. GARBER THAT WE
WE SHOULD REVISIT THOSE
DEFINITIONS AND AND TIGHTEN
THEM UP TO MAKE SURE THAT
THEY'RE ACTUALLY ALIGNED WITH
WHAT OUR GOALS ARE.
AND I ALSO THINK THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE GETTING REPORTS
SOON ON ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITIES AND ARE KIND OF A
FULL REVIEW OF OUR DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS.
WE HAVE HEARD OVER AND OVER
AGAIN HOW CHALLENGING IT IS TO
DEVELOP IN OUR COMMUNITY AND
OUR GREEN BUILDERS HAVE BEEN
ASKING US TO LOOK AT WAYS THAT
WE CAN REALLY DEMONSTRATE TO
DEVELOPERS MAKE IT EASY FOR
THEM TO TO BUILD GREEN.
AND SO I THINK THERE'S
HOPEFULLY GOING TO BE A LOT
OF OPPORTUNITIES IN THAT REPORT
THAT WE GET AND I KNOW THERE'S
OTHERS IN THE COMMUNITY WORKING
ON THIS.
SO LOOKING FORWARD TO MOVING
THOSE FORWARD FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I'M EXCITED ABOUT
THIS.
THIS MOVING FORWARD IS I THINK
THE ONLY PERSON HERE WHO VOTED
FOR THE INITIAL VOTED FOR THE
THE INITIAL PREMIUMS THAT WERE
PUT INTO PLACE IN 2019.
THEY WERE INDEED AN EFFORT TO
PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY AND
PROMOTE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
BUT AS THEIR STAFF MEMBERS AND
MEMBERS, THE PUBLIC WHO HAVE
SPOKEN TO FOLKS HERE AT THE
TABLE HAVE INDICATED THEY ARE
NOT SUCCESSFUL, THEY WEREN'T
SUCCESSFUL EVEN IN AN
ENVIRONMENT OF EXTREMELY LOW
INTEREST RATES.
WE DID NOT SEE BUILDING IN THE
DOWNTOWN THAT MADE USE OF THESE
PREMIUMS.
AND SO WHEN THINGS DON'T GO
WELL WE ITERATE AND THAT'S
EXACTLY WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE.
WE'RE LOOKING TO DO WHAT WE CAN
WITH THE TOOLS THAT WE HAVE
THOSE BEING LAND-USE
REQUIREMENTS TO INCENTIVIZE
MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THE
DOWNTOWN AND THROUGHOUT OUR
CITY AND ALSO TO PROMOTE MORE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN LINE
WITH OUR EIGHT TWO ZERO GOALS.
I AM EXCITED ABOUT THIS THIS
PARTICULAR CHANGE AND ALSO THE
PROSPECT ALLUDED TO OF OF MORE
INCENTIVES AND AN ABILITY FOR
US TO HELP DEVELOPERS WHO COME
TO US WITH WITH EIGHT TO ZERO
CONSISTENT AND PROMOTING
SOLUTIONS TO HELP THEM THROUGH
OUR PROCESSES AND GET THOSE GET
THOSE STRUCTURES OFF THE OFF
THE METAPHOR AND INTO REAL LIFE
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED B THREE
AND ARDEN'S TWO MEN SECTION 5.1
ZERO TWO AND FIVE THAT WON
SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE THE CODE OF THE CITY
BANABA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MCCONNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THREE
COUNCIL BRITISH.
AS I SAID THE FIRST TIME THIS
CAME BEFORE US THIS WAS A
SITUATION WHERE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION DID NOT RECOMMEND
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO STEP
TO SETBACKS BUT THERE THEIR
JUDGMENT WAS NOT UNANIMOUS AS
FIVE MEMBERS INCLUDING ME
SUPPORTED THE AMENDMENTS AND
THREE OPPOSED THEM.
NOW THERE IS BROAD AGREEMENT ON
THE PLANNING COMMISSION ABOUT
THE VALUE OF AND NEED TO
PROVIDE CAPACIOUS SIDEWALKS AND
AMENITIES LIKE STREET TREES,
BUS SHELTERS AND BIKE RACKS
A.S. ONE CORRIDOR'S THAT'S WITH
THIS SET BACK AMENDMENT IS
ABOUT CREATING PROVIDING FOR
THE FUTURE FOR THERE TO BE
SPACE TO DO THE KINDS OF THINGS
THAT MAKE TAXI ONE CORRIDORS
OF WALKABLE AND VIABLE
COMMUNITIES.
NOW PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
DISAGREED REGARDING WHETHER A
SPACE OUGHT TO BE CREATED BY
RECONFIGURING EXISTING
ARTERIALS THAT IS BY ENACTING
ROAD DIETZE OR MOVING CURBS
CHANGING THE INFRASTRUCTURE,
THE HARDWARE OF OUR STREETS OR
I REQUIRING PRIVATE PROPERTY
OWNERS TO SET BACK PERMANENT
STRUCTURES WHICH DOES INDEED
REDUCE THE BUILDABLE AREA IN
SOME INSTANCES THAT THEY WILL
ENJOY STREETSCAPES KINSLOW
TRAFFIC BUILDINGS SET CLOSER TO
THE CURB CAN SLOW TRAFFIC DRIVE
UNSAFELY TREES SET BETWEEN
SIDEWALKS AND CURBS CAN SLOW
TRAFFIC.
THERE IS NO CLEAR CUT TECHNICAL
ANSWER TO WHICH THESE SOLUTIONS
IS BETTER BUT WHAT WE DO KNOW
IS THAT IF COUNCIL CHOOSES NOT
TO REQUIRE SETBACKS FOR THESE
IMPORTANT MENOTTI'S PLANNING
STAFF AND PLANNING COMMISSION
CAN ENCOURAGE DEVELOPERS TO
PROVIDE IT BUT THERE WILL BE NO
CERTAINTY OF OUR SUCCEEDING NOR
WILL THERE BE CONSIDERED C
ALONG THESE CORRIDORS WHICH IS
VERY IMPORTANT.
AND MOREOVER I WOULD SAY THAT
MEASURING FROM THE BACK OF THE
CURB IS INGENIOUS BECAUSE IT IS
A WAY TO CREATE AMENITY SPACE
WITHOUT REINTRODUCING THE LARGE
DISTANCES BETWEEN THE STREET
AND DEVELOPMENTS.
THAT IS REALLY A FEATURE
OF SUBURBAN DESIGN AND IT IS
PRECISELY WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO
MOVE BEYOND WITH TSAY ONE FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCILOR
THANKS.
SORRY MY VOICE IS ALL SCRATCHY
.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK STAFF
FOR THEIR WORK ON THIS.
I THINK AS COUNCIL MEMBER JOSH
I APPRECIATE THE INNOVATIVE
APPROACH AT LOOKING AT THE
DISTANCE FROM THE CURB LINE.
I ALSO WANTED TO POINT OUT YOU
KNOW, WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO
THINK ABOUT WHAT THESE SPACES
SHOULD LOOK LIKE IN THE FUTURE
AS WE BUILD DENSE DEVELOPER
ALONG THEM.
RIGHT NOW A LOT OF THESE
CORRIDORS ARE FAST MOVING
TRAFFIC, NOT A LOT OF AMENITIES
IS SORT OF CATERED AROUND THE
AUTOMOBILE WHICH WE HAVE SAID
OVER AND OVER AGAIN THAT WE
DON'T WANT TO DO WITH THIS.
AND SO I THINK THIS GOES VERY
WELL WITH THE RESOLUTION THAT
WE PASSED A COUPLE OF MEETINGS
AGO WITH REGARD TO ROAD DIETING
.
AGAIN JUST TRYING TO THINK
ABOUT HOW WE USE THE SPACE THAT
WE HAVE IN THE RIGHT
WAY TO
MEET ALL OF THESE DIFFERENT
NEEDS THAT PEOPLE DRIVING,
PEOPLE WALKING PEOPLE BEING
ABLE TO BIKE COMFORTABLY,
PEOPLE BEING ABLE TO WAIT FOR
THE BUS WITHOUT GETTING RAINED
ON OR SNOWED ON.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO PROVING
THIS TONIGHT.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD WISE WAY TO
LOOK AT THE FUTURE OF HOW WE
WANT THIS SPACE TO LOOK FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE POSED IT
IS APPROVED BEFORE AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND THE ZONING MAP BEING A
PART OF SECTION FIVE GOT TURNED
OUT TO HAVE CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
OF TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF
THE SYDNEY HARBOR REZONING
OF EIGHT POINT THREE ACRES FROM
PARKING DISTRICT TO SEE TO BE
BUSINESS SERVICE DISTRICT NINE
HUNDRED BIRCHWOOD CIRCLE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER HIROSAKI
COUNCILOR RECOMMEND DISCUSSION
POLICY FOR COUNCIL MEMBER JOSH
.
THIS IS ONE OF MY FAVORITE
ITEMS ON THE AGENDA BECAUSE IT
IS OUR REVERSE JONI MITCHELL
APPROVAL OF THIS RESOLUTION WAS
ON TWO AREAS TOTALING EIGHT
POINT THREE ACRES TO ALLOW A
PARKING LOT TO BE DUG UP AND
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING UNITS PLUS
AN OPEN FIELD ATHLETIC FIELD TO
REPLACE IT.
WE ARE NOT PAVING OVER PARADISE
TO PUT UP A PARKING LOT BUT
REMOVING A PARKING LOT TO PUT
UP HOUSING.
WE ARE VOTING RIGHT NOW ONLY ON
THE REZONING WHICH AS I SAID
FROM PARKING TO SEE TO B C TO
BE ALIGNS WITH THE ZONING
OF THE REMAINING DEVELOPMENT
AND THE MALL'S FOOTPRINT.
IT IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
LAND USE ELEMENT EXCUSE ME
CONSISTENT WITH A STATE STREET
AREA PLAN AND COMPATIBLE WITH
ZONING IN THE SURROUNDING AREA
.
I AM ALTHOUGH THIS IS NOT
RELEVANT TO THE ZONING BUT I AM
HAPPY TO CONFIRM THAT THE
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNITS
SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED AND
OPERATED AS AN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING WITHOUT ANY NATURAL
GAS CONNECTIONS EXCEPT FOR WHAT
IS NEEDED FOR EMERGENCY BACKUP
POWER GENERATION THAT IS IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WHICH IS
IN THE PACKET.
IT'S NOT JUST MY WORD AGAINST
ANYONE ELSE'S.
THIS IS A LEGALLY ENFORCEABLE
AGREEMENT.
SO I'M VERY HAPPY TO SUPPORT
THIS REZONING AND I WILL BE
DELIGHTED TO SUPPORT THE SITE
PLAN WHEN WE COME TO THAT
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POWYS IT IS APPROVED BY ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE NINE
HUNDRED BROAD CIRCLE SITE PLAN
AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AT
NINE HUNDRED BRIGHTWOOD CIRCLE
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
PIRACICABA COUNCIL MEMBER
PAKMAN DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DBI
ONE COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
THE REASON WHY I'M TALKING SO
MUCH YOU MAY ALL WANT TO KNOW
IS BECAUSE I AM THE LIAISON THE
PARKING THE PARK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND SO I'M
SUPPOSED TO I LIKE TO EXPLAIN
THESE THINGS SO THAT WE ARE ALL
CLEAR ON WHAT WE'RE DOING.
SO I SAID A LOT ALREADY ABOUT
THE SITE PLAN SO I'M NOT GOING
TO REPEAT MUCH EXCEPT TO SAY
THAT THIS WILL FEATURE 354
UNITS OF MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING.
THE PROJECT WILL ALSO INCLUDE A
TWO LEVEL HIGH END GROCERY
STORE, A TWO LEVEL SPORTING
GOODS STORE AND AS I MENTIONED
BEFORE, A FENCED IN PLAYING
FIELD.
THE PROJECT IS ALL ELECTRIC AND
THE HOUSING I WANT TO EMPHASIZE
THIS BECAUSE IT'S IMPORTANT
WILL BE OF DIVERSE SIZE WHICH
MEANS THAT IT WILL OFFER
DIVERSE PRICE POINTS.
THERE WILL BE SEVENTY THREE
STUDIOS ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
THREE ONE BEDROOMS, NINETY SIX
BEDROOMS AND TWELVE THREE
BEDROOMS.
THERE WILL BE A FOUR LEVEL
PARKING GARAGE WITH THREE
HUNDRED AND ONE SPACES.
THIS WILL BE ENCIRCLED BY THE
RESIDENTIAL UNITS SO NOT
VISIBLE FROM THE STREET AND
WILL ENCLOSE IN WILL INCLUDE
ENCLOSED BICYCLE STORAGE FOR
THIRTY SIX BIKES ON THE PARKING
GARAGES FIRST LEVEL AS ADAM
GOODMAN MENTIONED THE
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS
WILL INCLUDE A LANE REDUCTION
FROM FIVE LANES TO FOUR LANES
FOR THE FRONTAGE OF A PRODUCT
OF THE PROJECT AND THE ADDITION
OF A DEDICATED STRIPED BIKE
LANE TO THE SURFACE
OF BRIARWOOD CIRCLE.
THERE'S ALSO GOING TO BE
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENTS
OF CONNECTIVITY THROUGH THIS
SITE.
AS FOR THE QUESTION WHY NOT FOR
I DON'T KNOW AND I WILL ASK FOR
THE DISCUSSION HALL.
OH AND SORRY AGAIN THIS IS WARD
FOR ALL I HAVE TO SAY IS PLEASE
TURN THE OLD VACANT SEERS AND
BIG FAST PARKING LOT INTO THREE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOUR
RESIDENTIAL UNITS IN OUR WARD.
THIS IS JUST NOTHING BUT GREAT
SO THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I WOULD LIKE TO ECHO MY
ENTHUSIASM FOR THIS PROJECT.
WE ALL KNOW THAT AREAS SUCH A
BRIARWOOD ARE UNDERGOING
SUBSTANTIAL CHANGES BOTH HERE
IN ANN ARBOR AND THROUGHT THE
LAND.
THE PARCEL THE BRIARWOOD IS IN
MANY PEOPLE'S MINDS A UNITARY
HALL BUT IT IS IN FACT A NUMBER
OF DIFFERENT PARCELS OWNED BY A
NUMBER OF DIFFERENT ENTITIES
EACH WITH THEIR OWN VIEW AS TO
WHAT WHAT'S GOOD FOR
THEMSELVES.
AND SO AS A CONSEQUENCE IS NOT
CAPABLE OF BEING ADDRESSED IN
GREAT UNITY AND SO WE MUST
APPROACH IT OR NOT AND SO IT
WILL BE APPROACHED BY THE
VARIOUS PROPERTY OWNERS IN THIS
THIS BLOCK BY BLOCK FASHION.
THAT IS TO SAY THIS IS THE
FIRST INSTANCE OF MAJOR CHANGE
IN THE BRIARWOOD AREA AND IT IS
ONE THAT IS I THINK INCREDIBLY
POSITIVE.
THE TRANSITION FROM PARKING LOT
IN THE OLD SYAS TO GROCERY
RESIDENTIAL AND AND FURTHER
RETAIL IS A A WHOLESALE GOOD.
I'M INCREDIBLY EXCITED BY IT
AND HOPEFULLY THIS IS THE FIRST
OF MANY TO COME IN THE AREA FOR
THE DISCUSSION ON POSED IT IS
APPROVED.
SO YOU WANT AN AUDIENCE TO ADD
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE LEAF BLOWERS
TO TITLE SIX OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C ONE COUNCILOR
QUINNELL JUST AS A REMINDER
OF WHAT THIS ORDINANCE CHANGE
IS IT IS A BAN IN THE OVER TIME
OF GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWERS AS
IT CURRENTLY READS OFF SEASON
DURING THE SUMMER WHEN PEOPLE
AREN'T MOVING THEIR LEAVES JUNE
1ST TO SEPTEMBER 30TH ELECTRIC
LEAF BLOWERS CAN BE USED DURING
THAT TIME GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS ARE PERMITTED FROM
OCTOBER TO MAY 30TH THROUGH THE
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN
BEGINNING JANUARY 1ST TWENTY
TWENTY EIGHTH THE USE OF ALL
GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWERS IS
PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES IN THE
CITY.
THIS ORDINANCE IS ALL INCLUSIVE
INCLUDING PARKS, GOLF COURSES,
COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES AND
APARTMENTS AND CONDOMINIUMS.
ENFORCEMENT WILL BE COMPLAINT
BASED AND ENFORCEMENT WOULD BE
MOST STRAIGHTFORWARD DURING
THAT TIME WHEN GASOLINE BLOWERS
ARE BANNED BECAUSE THEY ARE
EASILY OBSERVABLE.
THE PHASED APPROACH OF THIS
ORDINANCE THE IMMEDIATE BAN
DURING OFF SEASON ALLOWS A
FINANCIAL RUNWAY FOR RESIDENTS
AND BUSINESS OWNERS TO PREPARE
WHEN A SEASONAL BAN FIRST GOES
INTO EFFECT, COMPANIES WILL
NEED TO OBTAIN ELECTRIC
EQUIPMENT TO CONTINUE WORKING.
THEY WOULD STILL BE ABLE TO USE
THEIR GAS IN THE BUSIEST SEASON
ALLOWING THEM TO AMORTIZE THAT
EQUIPMENT WHILE UNDERGIRDING
ELECTRIC INTO THEIR OPERATIONS
.
I WANT TO SAY THAT
OVERWHELMINGLY THE FEEDBACK FOR
THIS HAS BEEN POSITIVE.
I DID WANT TO ADDRESS A FEW
MISCONCEPTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
RAISED.
I HAVE HEARD FEEDBACK THAT
ELECTRIC BLOWERS DON'T WORK AS
WELL.
BUT A RECENT CONSUMER REPORT
ANALYSIS SHOWED ELECTRIC LEAF
BLOWERS MATCH OR BEAT THE BEST
GAS MODELS IN EVERY SINGLE TEST
CONDUCTED AND THE ANALYSIS
SHOWED THAT THE BATTERIES FOR
LEAF BLOWERS TESTED OR I'M
SORRY IN THE IN THE THE
BATTERIES THAT WERE CHARGED
THAT WERE TESTED FOR LEAF
BLOWERS, ELECTRIC ONES CHARGED
IN APPROXIMATELY FIVE TO FORTY
EIGHT MINUTES AND WORKED FOR AN
AVERAGE OF NINETY FOUR MINUTES
.
IN CONTRAST NO GAS MODELS WERE
CONSIDERED QUIET DURING THEIR
TESTING AND GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS GENERATED TWENTY THREE
TIMES THE CARBON DIOXIDE OF AN
F1 50.
THOSE GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWERS
HAVE BEEN LINKED TO CANCER,
ASTHMA, HEART DISEASE AND
HEARING LOSS.
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWERS ARE
BETTER FOR THE PLANET, BETTER
FOR PEOPLE'S HEALTH, BETTER FOR
THE WORKERS WHO OPERATE THAT
EQUIPMENT AND OVER TIME WHEN
YOU FACTOR IN THE GAS MODEL'S
LIFETIME COST LESS EXPENSIVE,
THE RESULTS SHOWED A POSITIVE
RETURN ON INVESTMENT IN BATTERY
POWERED LEAF BLOWERS AND ABOUT
TEN MONTHS I'LL BE SUPPORTING
THIS TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF ONE
CANCER, THE ONE I WOULD LIKE TO
THANK THE SPONSORS OF THIS.
I THINK IT'S NEEDED.
IT'S NECESSARY.
WE KNOW THE PUBLIC HEALTH
IMPACTS OF GAS AND
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS.
I HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH THE
SPONSORS ON TWO AMENDMENTS THAT
I WOULD LIKE TO I'D LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION TO BRING FORTH
I'M SORRY ONE AMENDMENT THAT IS
ATTACHED TO THE AGENDA.
I WORKED WITH THE SPONSORS ON
THESE AMENDMENTS SO I HOPE IT
WILL BE FRIENDLY TO THE BODY.
SO LET'S SEE
.
OH, IT'S A SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE
IN WHOLE SO IT'S AN AMENDMENT
FOR THE SUB SUBSTITUTE
ORDINANCE MOVED BY COUNCILOR
BECAUSE HE HAD ONE SECOND BY
COUNCILOR DENHA THAT FOUND THE
BODY THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
FROM THE BODY FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED.
THANK YOU KATHLEEN DENHA THANK
YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
FIRST FOREMOST I DO WANT TO
THANK MY COLLEAGUES, MEMBERS
OF OUR STAFF FOR THEIR WORK ON
THIS PROPOSED ORDINANCE.
I AGREE WITH AND SUPPORT THE
INTENT HERE AND SUPPORT THE
EVENTUAL OUTCOME GAS PLANT GAS
POWERED LEAF BLOWERS
ARE IN
FACT BAD FOR THE ENVIRONMENT,
BAD FOR YOUR HEALTH.
I PURCHASED AN ELECTRIC LEAF
BLOWER WHEN I FIRST MOVED INTO
MY HOME AND WHILE IT'S
CERTAINLY NOT PERFECT, I WISH I
WOULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN MY BOTTLE
WITH A BETTER BATTERY.
IT MOSTLY MEETS MY NEEDS.
I DO ENCOURAGE MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY TO EDUCATE THEMSELVES
ON THIS TOPIC AND BEGIN TO MAKE
THIS TRANSITION.
THAT BEING SAID, I DO STILL
HAVE A COUPLE OF CONCERNS WITH
THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE AND ALSO
HAVE A COUPLE OF AMENDMENTS.
FIRST, I'M RELATIVELY
UNCOMFORTABLE SUPPORTING AN ALL
OUT SUMMER BAN IMMEDIATELY
GOING INTO EFFECT.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THIS MAY
SIMPLY BE A POINT
OF DISAGREEMENT FOR SOME OF US
WHICH IS OK BUT I'M ASKING MY
CONSTITUENTS AND SOME IN OUR
LOWER INCOME NEIGHBORHOODS TO
CHANGE OUT EXPENSIVE LAWN
EQUIPMENT IN THE NEXT SIX
MONTHS.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I'M NOT
COMFORTABLE SUPPORTING WHILE
SOME ARE MAYBE THE OFF SEASON,
A LOT OF MY CONSTITUENTS A LOT
OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS USE
THEIR LEAF BLOWERS TO CLEAR
GRASS GLASS SORRY GRASS
CLIPPINGS FROM DRIVEWAYS,
ROADWAYS AND PUBLIC SIDEWALKS
AFTER CARING FOR THEIR LAWNS
WHICH HELPS TO PREVENT THE YARD
WASTE FROM MAKING IT INTO OUR
STORM DRAINS OR CLOGGING OR
CREATING OBSTACLES ON OUR
SIDEWALKS.
I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT THERE
ARE HEALTH CONCERNS HERE AS
WELL AND I DON'T TAKE THAT
LIGHTLY.
IT'S WHY I'M GRATEFUL THAT MY
WARD COLLEAGUE IS ENGAGING WITH
OUR SITE ABOUT WAYS THAT WE CAN
HELP OUR NEIGHBORS WHO MAY NOT
OTHERWISE BE ABLE TO AFFORD IT
TO START MAKING THIS TRANSITION
.
BUT AS I'VE ALSO SHARED WITH A
NUMBER OF YOU, I HAVE AN OLDER
NEIGHBOR WHO USED TO WORK IN
LANDSCAPING WHO IS RETIRED NOW
BUT USES MUCH OF HIS OLDER
EQUIPMENT TO HELP OTHER ELDERLY
OR DISABLED FOLKS IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD TO CARE FOR THEIR
LAWNS AND TO KEEP THEM IN
COMPLIANCE WITH CITY ORDINANCE.
SIMILARLY, THERE ARE MANY
INDIVIDUALS NOT JUST BIG
COMMERCIAL LANDSCAPERS WHO DO
YARD WORK TO EARN MONEY IN THE
SUMMER AND IMMEDIATE SUMMER BAN
IS LIKELY NOT GOING TO
INCENTIVIZE MY NEIGHBOR OR
THESE SMALL TIME ENTREPRENEURS
TO SPEND MONEY TO REPLACE
WORKING AT WORKING EQUIPMENT
WITH NEW ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
IMMEDIATELY.
BUT IT WILL LIKELY MEAN THAT
THEY ARE SIMPLY NOT ABLE TO
CUT.
THEY WILL HAVE TO CUT BACK ON
THE SERVICES THAT THEY'RE ABLE
TO PROVIDE THIS SUMMER.
FOR THAT REASON I WOULD BE
COMFORTABLE WITH A SLIGHTLY
LONGER RAMP UP PERIOD WHICH
GRANTS US MORE TIME TO EDUCATE
THE PUBLIC ABOUT THE HEALTH
RISKS, THE UPCOMING CHANGES AND
POTENTIALLY TO WORK WITH OSHA
TO ASSIST WITH LOWER INCOME
RESIDENTS AND SMALLER
BUSINESSES AND MAKING THE
TRANSITION WHICH WOULD EMPOWER
OUR RESIDENTS TO EMBRACE THESE
CHANGES RATHER THAN PENALIZING
THEM WHEN THEY CANNOT DO SO
IMMEDIATELY.
SO FOR THAT REASON, MADAM
CLERK, IF YOU COULD PLEASE
DISTRIBUTE AMENDMENT ONE THAT I
SHARED EARLIER TODAY, I WOULD
MOVE THAT UNDER SIX, SEVEN OR
TWO OF THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE
REGULATION OF GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS.
WE AMEND THE LANGUAGE TO READ
SUMMER BAN AND TO PHASE OUT
BEGINNING ON JANUARY 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE THE USE
OF GASTLY GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS IS PROHIBITED IN THE
CITY FROM JUNE ONE TO SEPTEMBER
30TH.
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWERS MAY BE
USED DURING THIS TIME.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN BECAUSE HE HAD ONE
DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT
CORNELL I'M UNCLEAR WHY PEOPLE
NEED TO USE GAS LEAF BLOWERS IN
THE SUMMER WHEN THEY'RE NOT
MOVING LEAVES AND I DO THINK
THAT THE RAMP UP BETWEEN NOW
AND THE SUMMER IS AMPLE
OPPORTUNITY TO COME UP WITH A
DIFFERENT SYSTEM IF IF THAT
WON'T WORK FOR YOU MANY
OF WHICH SUCH AS A BROOM IS
VERY COST EFFECTIVE.
SO I WOULD NOT BE SUPPORTING
THIS AMENDMENT COUNCIL MARIAH?
UM, YEAH.
I ALSO WON'T BE SUPPORTING US.
I DON'T THINK THAT WE'RE DOING
EITHER OUR CONSTITUENTS OR THE
ENVIRONMENT ANY FAVORS BY
PROLONGING THE TRANSITION
THAT'S REALLY NECESSARY HERE.
THESE ARE INCREDIBLY DIRTY
POLLUTING MACHINES.
THEY'RE TERRIBLE NOT JUST FOR
THE ENVIRONMENT BUT FOR THE
VERY PEOPLE WHO ARE USING THEM
,MANY OF WHOM ARE LOW INCOME
LAWN CARE WORKERS WHO HAVE NO
CHOICE BUT TO USE WHAT THEIR
BOSS GIVES THEM AND I'M VERY
MINDFUL OF THAT IN WANTING TO
DO THIS AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.
I'M GOING TO QUOTE FROM AN
ARTICLE ONLINE A LEAF BLOWER
BLOWS MUCH MORE THAN LEAVES
GARDENERS WIELDING THESE
MACHINES ALSO BLAST AWAY
TOPSOIL TAKE UP PESTICIDES,
FUNGI, CHEMICALS, FERTILIZERS,
SPORES WHICH ARE SOMETIMES
DISEASE WEED SEEDS AND STREET
DIRT THAT CAN CONTAIN OIL AND
GASOLINE.
ALL OF THIS GOES INTO YOUR
LUNGS WHEN YOU'RE USING ONE.
ALL OF THESE EMISSIONS CAN
WORSEN ASTHMA, ALLERGIES AND
OTHER CHRONIC LUNG AILMENTS.
THE AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION
IS ON RECORD SUPPORTING THE
ENDS OF LEAF BLOWERS.
YOU KNOW, AND TOO OFTEN THESE
DEVICES JUST MOVE LEAVES AND
GRASS CLIPPINGS AROUND MAYBE
ONE IS TRYING TO SEND THEM BACK
INTO THEIR LAWN BUT THEY DO
OFTEN AND BACK UP IN THE STREET
AND CLOG STORM DRAINS TO
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL'S POINT
A BROOM WORKS GREAT.
I'VE NOT USED A LEAF BLOWER ON
GLASS GRASS CLIPPINGS EVER IN
MY LIFE.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW HOW ONE WOULD
GO ABOUT DOING THAT.
I'M SURE PEOPLE HAVE FIGURED IT
OUT BUT IT SEEMS PRETTY TOUGH
TO ME IN ANY CASE REGARDLESS
OF MY PERSONAL PREFERENCES,
STUDIES HAVE ACTUALLY SHOWN
THAT IN FACT IN NINETEEN NINETY
EIGHT A LOS ANGELES CITY TASK
FORCE PITTED A WOMAN IN HER
LATE FIFTIES.
I'M ONLY ALMOST 50 ARMED WITH
RAKES AND BROOMS AGAINST EARLY
GARDENERS WITH GAS POWERED AND
BATTERY POWERED LEAF BLOWERS.
THE RAKE AND BROOM WERE FASTER
THAN THE LEAF BLOWERS AND
CLEANED SOME AREAS BETTER THAN
BOTH.
I WILL NOT BE SUPPORTING THIS
FURTHER DISCUSSION BECAUSE ON
YOU KNOW I I UNDERSTAND THE
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND I KNOW
THAT WE YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT GOOD
FOR OUR HEALTH AT THE SAME TIME
I THINK THAT WHEN WE IMPLEMENT
SOME OF THESE TRANSITIONS WE
HAVE TO THINK ABOUT WHO IS ABLE
TO PARTICIPATE AND WHO IS LEFT
BEHIND BY SOME OF THESE CHOICES
.
PART OF THE REASON WHY I CAME
FORTH WITH BOTH THE AMENDMENTS
AS WELL AS THE RESOLUTION THAT
WILL BE DISCUSSED SHORTLY WHICH
DETAILS A EDUCATIONAL PLAN AND
CAMPAIGN THAT OSHA WILL BE
LAUNCHING AS I THINK IT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT THAT WE GIVE
OUR RESIDENTS ADEQUATE TIME,
ESPECIALLY THOSE MOST
DISENFRANCHIZED TO UNDERSTAND
THE CHANGES AND USE BY SEASON
AND USE BY TIME AS WELL AS YOU
KNOW, THE CITY IS PLANNING TO
CREATE A BULK BUY PROGRAM AND
POTENTIALLY SUBSIDIZE EQUIPMENT
.
I ALSO WANT TO DO WANT TO
MENTION A STORY THE REASON WHY
I ALSO BROUGHT FORTH THESE
AMENDMENTS AND WHY I WILL BE
SUPPORTING A MEMBER OF A
PROPOSED AMENDMENT IS I WAS
APPROACHED BY A SMALL MINORITY
OWNED BUSINESS THAT DOES LAWN
WORK AND THEY HAD JUST INVESTED
A BUNCH OF GAS EQUIPMENT AND
THEY APPROACHED ME AND THEY
SAID WE DON'T KNOW IF WE'LL BE
ABLE TO AFFORD A BUNCH
OF ELECTRIC ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT.
I KNOW THAT ELECTRIC LEAF
BLOWERS ARE CHEAPER FOR
RESIDENTS BUT AT A COMMERCIAL
LEVEL THE TECHNOLOGY DOESN'T
EXIST YET AND THEY ARE MORE
EXPENSIVE FOR THE DISCUSSION
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ON THE
AMENDMENT NO ON THE AMENDMENT
REDISH NO AMENDMENT COUNCILOR
HARRISON YES CRAFTSPERSON UPSET
COUNCILOR WATSON NO BECAUSE
WE'RE DENHA YES.
CONCERNED ABOUT 01.
YES MAYOR TAYLOR NO COUNCILOR
ER NO COUNCILOR NO COUNCILOR
BRIGGS NO COUNCILOR CORNELL NO
MOTION FAILED FURTHER
DISCUSSION THAN AN EMOTIONAL
MOMENT COUNCILOR YOU HAVE THE
FLOOR.
I THINK YOU'RE GOING TO BE A
TRAILER SECOND WHILE THE
COMPROMISE LANGUAGE ONE BY MY
WORD COLLEAGUE AND THE SPONSORS
EARLIER NEGOTIATED BETWEEN MY
WORK COLLEAGUE AND THE SPONSORS
EARLIER WAS A SLIGHT
IMPROVEMENT.
I STILL DO NOT SUPPORT A NEW
LIMITATION ON OPERATIONAL HOURS
THAT ARE INCONSISTENT WITH OUR
EXISTING NOISE ORDINANCE.
I THINK THIS CREATES
UNNECESSARY CONFUSION FOR
RESIDENTS AND FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE SIMPLY DOESN'T MAKE
A TON OF SENSE.
I CAN GET MORE INTO THAT BUT
FIRST I WILL I WILL MOVE THAT
UNDER SIX SEVEN THREE
REGULATION OF LEAF BLOWERS
GENERALLY I MOVE TO STRIKE THE
ENTIRETY OF THE HOURS
OF OPERATION SECTION AND TO
RENUMBER IT ACCORDINGLY AND
WOULD ASK THAT OUR CLERK
DISTRIBUTE AMENDMENT TO THAT I
PROVIDED EARLIER TODAY SECONDED
BY COUNCILOR BECAUSE HE HAD ONE
COUNCILOR DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR NOISE IS A
NUISANCE BUT IT'S A TEMPORARY
NUISANCE.
YOU MAY REMEMBER SOME OF MY
COMMENTS ABOUT THIS WHEN WE
RECENTLY VOTED NOT TO ENFORCE
AGAINST NOISE BASED NUISANCES
FOR EXAMPLE AS THE PRIMARY
REASON TO STOP VEHICLES PASSING
THROUGH A NEIGHBORHOOD AND FOR
GOOD REASON.
SIMILARLY, LEAF BLOWERS ARE
OFTEN NOT USED IN A SINGLE
SPACE FOR HOURS AND HOURS ON
END AND IT STRIKES ME AS ODD
AND INCONSISTENT THAT IF THIS
PASSES AS IS WE WOULD BE
CREATING A SEPARATE CLASS FOR
NOISE VIOLATION FOR WHICH OUR
RESIDENTS COULD BE TICKETED UP
TO FIVE HUNDRED SPECIFICALLY
AND ONLY FOUR LEAF BLOWERS
INCLUDING THE USE OF QUIETER
ELECTRIC MODELS.
I THINK IT CREATES A BIT OF A
GOTCHA MOMENT FOR OUR RESIDENTS
BECAUSE FOR AT LEAST A FOUR
HOUR PERIOD EACH DAY AND I
THINK ABOUT THIS SPECIFICALLY
DURING A LONGER SUMMER MONTHS
WHEN FOLKS ARE REGULARLY
OUTDOORS DOING YARD WORK LATER
ONE COULD HAVE A PARTY IN THEIR
BACKYARD WITH MUSIC OR TV
AMPLIFIED, COULD BE DOING NOISY
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT WITH
CHAINSAWS AND POWER TOOLS,
COULD MOW THEIR LAWN PLOW SNOW,
WE'D RIP THEIR FENCE LINES ALL
OF WHICH WOULD BE PERFECTLY
LEGAL BUT COULD ACTUALLY BE
TICKETED FOR USING EVEN AN
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWER TO BLOW
LEAVES OR CLEAR GRASS CLIPPINGS
FROM THEIR SIDEWALKS DURING
THAT SAME TIME IT STRIKES ME AS
UNNECESSARY AND UNNECESSARILY
CONFUSING AND COMPLICATED TO
CREATE A SEPARATE
CLASSIFICATION FOR A SINGLE
PIECE OF EQUIPMENT WHEN OUR
EXISTING NOISE ORDINANCE
ALREADY EXISTS TO MANAGE THIS
PROBLEM FOR ALL SIMILAR PIECES
OF EQUIPMENT.
THAT'S ALL I'LL SAY ON THAT.
BUT I ENCOURAGE THANK YOU FOR
THE DISCUSSION CASPER MAKOTO, I
WANT TO CALL IT A COUPLE
OF INCONSISTENCIES.
THERE IS ALREADY AMENDED HOURS
FOR WHEN YOU CAN USE EQUIPMENT
AND HOUSE REPAIR AND HOUSE
CONSTRUCTION
.
SO WE DO HAVE WE DO HAVE
PRECEDENT FOR SETTING DIFFERENT
HOURS FOR DIFFERENT THINGS.
AND I DO WANT TO TAKE ISSUE
WITH THE IDEA THAT A SNOW
BLOWER OR A GAS LAWNMOWER IS
THE SAME DECIBEL OUTPUT AS A AS
A GAS LEAF BLOWER BECAUSE THOSE
TWO THINGS ARE NOT EQUAL.
SO I KIND OF FEEL LIKE WE'RE I
FEEL LIKE WE'RE COMPARING
APPLES TO VOLKSWAGENS AND
TRYING TO MAKE SOME SORT
OF EQUITABLE DECISION BASED ON
THOSE THINGS WHEN THEY JUST
AREN'T THE SAME.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
THE WAY THE ORDINANCE IS
CURRENTLY WRITTEN IT IS NOT A A
TIME LIMIT ONLY ON GAS LEAF
BLOWERS.
THERE'S ALSO A TIME LIMIT ON
QUIETER ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWERS
AND IT IS ONLY FOR LEAF
BLOWERS.
SO IT IS NOT CONSISTENT WITH
ANY OTHER PIECE OF EQUIPMENT
THAT YOU MIGHT USE IT WOULD BE
A SEPARATE CLASSIFICATION
SOLELY FOR THAT AND OUR
RESIDENTS ARE EXPECTED TO JUST
KNOW THAT YOU CAN'T USE THAT
ONE WHILE YOU CAN USE ALL THE
OTHERS.
IT JUST SEEMS INCONSISTENT AND
UNNECESSARY TO ME FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER.
YEAH, I WOULD JUST POINT OUT
THAT WHILE ELECTRIC LEAF
BLOWERS ARE QUIETER THEY STILL
EMIT YOU KNOW, AROUND ANYWHERE
FROM 60 TO 70 DECIBELS.
SO IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT LIKE
THESE THINGS ARE WHISPER QUIET.
YOU KNOW THERE THERE'S STILL
CREATING NOISE THAT AT LEAST I
HEAR FROM MY CONSTITUENTS ABOUT
A LOT AND FOLKS ARE PRETTY
HAPPY THAT WITH THE CURB ON THE
OURS SO THAT FOLKS CAN, YOU
KNOW, BE OUTSIDE IN THE
EVENING, ENJOY THEIR DINNER
OUTSIDE AND NOT BE DISTURBED BY
THE SOUND OF THESE THINGS
FURTHER DISCUSSION ROLL ROLL
CALL VOTE PLEASE ON AMENDMENT
NUMBER TWO STARTING WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER YES.
COMES FROM WHITEISH.
YES, SIR.
HARRISON YES.
ELSEWHERE SONG APSA CUSTOMER
WATSON YES SIR.
DENHA YES RIGHT 01 YES.
RETAILOR YES ELSEWHERE IHR NO
AKMAN NO CUSTOMER BRIGS NO
CUSTOMER CORNELL NO MOTION
CARRIES FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED
CATHARTIC.
I THINK THIS IS A GREAT
AUDIENCE.
ONCE THE SNOW STOPS FALLING AND
PEOPLE STOP WRITING ABOUT
CLEARING SIDEWALKS THEY START
WRITING ABOUT LEAF BLOWERS AND
I'M REALLY REALLY HAPPY TO BE
ABLE TO EXTEND THE SAME CARE
AND CONCERN FOR OUTDOOR
IMMEDIATE AREA OUTDOOR AIR
QUALITY AS WE ARE WORKING ON
INDOOR AIR QUALITY.
SO BUT MY QUESTION IS TWENTY
TWENTY EIGHT SEEMS LIKE A LONG
WAYS AWAY AND I KNOW THAT THERE
ARE REASONS FOR THE LEAD TIME
BUT I'M WONDERING IF YOU
CONSIDERED TWENTY TWENTY SIX OR
TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN AND WHY
2010 EIGHT IF YOU KNOW IF THIS
FEELS URGENT IF IT IS HORRIBLE
FOR PEOPLE'S HEALTH IF PEOPLE
DON'T HAVE A WHOLE LOT
OF CONTROL OVER THE EQUIPMENT
THEY HAVE TO USE SHOULDN'T
ISN'T IT COULDN'T WE INTERVENE
SOONER FOR THE DISCUSSION
COLONEL I APPRECIATE YOUR
CONCERN.
REPETITIOUS COMMENTS THERE WAS
A LOT OF THOUGHT AND CARE PUT
INTO EQUITY ISSUES AROUND THIS,
ESPECIALLY FOR SMALL BUSINESS
OWNERS AND FOR FOLKS WHO MIGHT
BE MOBILITY CHALLENGED ON FIXED
INCOMES.
AND THE IDEA WAS THAT THE
SEASONAL BAN COUPLED WITH A
LONGER RUNWAY WAS THE ABSOLUTE
MOST INCLUSIVE WAY TO MAKE THIS
MAKE THIS SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE
COULD BE EXCITED ABOUT BECAUSE
I DO THINK IT IS EXCITING
WITHOUT FEELING PRESSURE
FINANCIALLY OR PHYSICALLY TO
ADAPT TO THE CHANGE QUICKLY FOR
THE DISCUSSION OR FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION
APPROVED TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
COUNCIL COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
WITH VISCOUNT DENHA SECOND
VISCOUNTS MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE
COUNCIL PER DENHA THANK YOU MY
COLLEAGUES.
VERY BRIEFLY THIS RESOLUTION
SIMPLY REAFFIRMS COUNCIL MEMBER
COMMITTEE BOARD AND COMMITTEE
ASSIGNMENTS FOR THE UPCOMING
YEAR.
THE ONLY CHANGES OF NOTE ARE
THAT COUNCIL MEMBERS ACKMANN
AND BRIGS HAVE REQUESTED TO
SWAP A SWAP IN ASSIGNMENTS
WHICH WAS HONORED IF THESE ARE
APPROVED TONIGHT BEGINNING IN
2020 FOR COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
WILL BEGIN SERVING ON THE
HOUSING COMMISSION COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS WILL BEGIN SERVING
ON THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION ONCE AGAIN AND THEY
WILL BE REPLACING ONE ANOTHER
ON THOSE BODIES.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I AM EXCITED ABOUT
THIS MOVING FORWARD AND GETTING
BACK TO THANK YOU MAYOR PRO
DENHA FOR WORK DONE WELL I
DON'T WANT TO SAY SHEPHERDING
CATS BECAUSE I DON'T WANT TO
MISCHARACTERIZE THE THE
COOPERATION OF OUR VARIOUS
COLLEAGUES BUT IN ANY EVENT
THERE A LOT OF MOVING PARTS AND
IT'S NOT EASY.
AND SO COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA,
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED TO RESOLUTION TO
LAUNCH EDUCATION AND ENGAGEMENT
INITIATIVES IN SUPPORT
OF TRANSITION TO ALL ELECTRIC
LEAF MAINTENANCE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GOSIA I DON'T
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER COME
TO OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE ADC TO
THANK YOU.
I AM REALLY EXCITED TO BRING
THIS FORWARD AND I WANT TO
THANK OUR STAFF FOR WORKING
WITH ME ON THIS.
ESSENTIALLY IT'S A RESOLUTION
THAT WILL HELP THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LEAF
BLOWER ORDINANCE AND IT REALLY
FOCUSES ON EQUITY SO ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT THE AMENDMENT THAT
I PREVIOUSLY PROPOSED PUT INTO
PLACE WAS ORIGINALLY BELLEFLEUR
ORDINANCE SAID THAT IF YOU
VIOLATED THE HOURS OR THE
SEASONS THERE WOULD BE A FIVE
HUNDRED DOLLAR FINE AND NOW THE
FINES WILL BE ONE HUNDRED TO
TWO FIFTY TO PROGRESSIVE FINES
SCALE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
CHAPTER SEVENTY THREE TO CYCLE
POWER EQUIPMENT IN THIS
RESOLUTION IT DETAILS HOW THE
FINES FROM THOSE PENALTIES WILL
GO INTO A FUND TO HELP LOW
INCOME AND FIXED INCOME
RESIDENTS TO BUY ELECTRIC LEAF
BLOWERS.
IN ADDITION, IT TALKS ABOUT AN
EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN THAT WILL
BE LAUNCHED NEXT YEAR BOTH FOR
BUSINESSES AND FOR RESIDENTS
TRANSITIONING TO ELECTRIC LEAF
BLOWERS AND IN THE FUTURE
ELECTRIC LAWN EQUIPMENT.
AND THEN ALSO IT DETAILS OWI
ESTABLISHING A BLOCK BY PROGRAM
FOR ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWERS BUT
FOR RESIDENTS AND COMMERCIAL
BUSINESSES OF ANY SIZE.
WHAT'S REALLY EXCITING ABOUT
THIS IS OUR SCIENCE TALKS ABOUT
HOW CAN WE A FRAMEWORK FOR
FUTURE TRANSITIONS TO OTHER
ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT THAT WE
PURSUE FOR DISCUSSION.
COUNSELOR AKMAN I THINK THIS IS
GREAT AND I WANT TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER GOZI ONE FOR HER
WORK ON THIS.
YOU KNOW, AS MANY RESIDENTS ARE
FAMILIAR WITH, WE HAVE
PRECEDENT FOR DOING SOMETHING
LIKE THIS.
WE DO GROUP BY FIRST SOLAR
PROGRAM.
IT'S BEEN VERY SUCCESSFUL AT
GETTING RESIDENTS ABLE TO GET
SOLAR PANELS ON THEIR HOUSES AT
DISCOUNT.
SO I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT
APPLYING THIS TO SOMETHING ELSE
NOT TO TAKE ANYTHING AWAY FROM
WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE.
BUT IT DID FEEL LIKE WE SHOULD
POINT OUT THAT OUR PRACTICE
WITH THESE KINDS OF CITATIONS
IS TO ISSUE A WARNING FIRST TO
PEOPLE GENERALLY DON'T GET
SLAPPED WITH A TICKET RIGHT
AWAY.
THEY GET A WARNING SO THAT THEY
HAVE SOME TIME TO CHANGE.
SO I JUST I STILL THINK THAT
THIS IS GREAT.
I LOOK FORWARD TO PUTTING MONEY
THAT WE COLLECT IN FINES
TOWARDS THIS PROGRAM BUT I FELT
LIKE THAT WAS WORTH MENTIONING
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
DENHA THANKS.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO THANK MY
WORK COLLEAGUE FOR HER WORK ON
THIS.
I KNOW WE'VE HAD A NUMBER
OF CONVERSATIONS AND I FAILED
TO REACH OUT AND ASK TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR AND SO IF
I COULD BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR I WOULD APPRECIATE
THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
WHATEVER POST IS APPROVED DO
YES ONE RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF ORDINANCE TWO THREE THREE TO
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION
FIVE THAT ONE SEVEN FOUR AND
FIVE THAT ONE EIGHT SIX AT
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE INSTEAD OF ANN
ARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
JUST SAID MY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE ADDS
ONE ON FAVOR POSED IT'S PROVED
DOWN TO RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF ORDINANCE TWO THREE THREE
THREE AND JORDAN'S TO AMEND
SECTIONS FIVE ONE ZERO TWO AND
FIVE ONE SEVEN FOUR OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE BANABA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL ECONOMIC
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED THESE
TO IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY.
ALL RIGHT THEN WE HAVE WE HAVE
A FOX.
THE CROOKS ARE PART
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS AND HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
A DENHA SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED ARE
THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
THANK YOU.
WE NOW RETURN TO PUBLIC COMMENT
COMING OVERFLOW TIME TO REFRESH
YOUR RECOLLECTION.
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT ONE NEED TO
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS.
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO TIME.
SPEAKERS WILL BE CALLED IN THE
ORDER THAT THEY HAVE DESIGNATED
BY THE CITY CLERK IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE PRE ESTABLISHED
METHODOLOGY SPOTS ARE AVAILABLE
WHEN CALLED.
SO IF WE ARE PRESENT HERE YOU
ARE WELCOME INVITED TO SPEAK.
IF THE PERSON IS NOT PRESENT
THEN THEIR SPACE IS IS MOVED ON
TO THE NEXT AND WE MOVE FORWARD
IN ALL INSTANCES SPEAKERS ARE
NOT AUTHORIZED TO TO DESIGNATE
THEIR TIME TO OTHERS.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER A PUBLIC
COMMENT IS RYNER MUSASHI
CALL
THE PHONE NUMBER FIVE SIX FOUR
PROSCAR NINE TO START SIX ON
YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD
RANIA MASRI IS ON THE
LINE.
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND BY
PRESSING NINE
I DON'T BELIEVE
THIS CALLERS ON THE LINE OUR
NEXT SPEAKER IS PLACIDE
WHEN
WAS FIRST FROM ANN ARBOR ISMAN
WAS SENATOR GOT IN THE NAME
OF ALLAH THE MOST BENEFICENT,
THE MOST MERCIFUL SALUTATIONS
AND BLESSINGS BE UPON HIS NOBLE
PROPHET AND MESSENGER HE
MENTIONS IN HIS GLORIOUS BOOK
AND HE WHO KILLS US UNLESS IT
BE IN PUNISHMENT FOR MURDER OR
FOR SPREADING MISCHIEF ON EARTH
SHALL BE AS IF HE HAD KILLED
ALL MANKIND AND HE WHO SAVES IT
LIFE SHALL BE AS IF HE HAD
GIVEN LIFE TO ALL MANKIND.
THE PREAMBLE TO THE DECLARATION
OF INDEPENDENCE STATES WE HOLD
THESE TRUTHS TO BE SELF-EVIDENT
THAT ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL
,THAT THEY ARE ENDOWED BY
THEIR CREATOR WITH CERTAIN
INALIENABLE RIGHTS THAT AMONG
THESE ARE LIFE, LIBERTY AND THE
PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS.
I AM HERE TO CALL FOR FREEDOM.
I AM HERE TO CALL FOR FREEDOM
FOR A POPULATION UNDER SIEGE IN
PALESTINE.
I AM HERE TO CALL FOR AN END TO
THE GENOCIDAL BARBARIC BOMBING
OF CHILDREN AND CIVILIANS
FUNDED BY OUR TAX DOLLARS.
I AM HERE TO CALL FOR
PROTECTING FREEDOM OF SPEECH
AND FREEDOM OF RELIGION RIGHT
HERE IN OUR CITY FREE FROM
DOXXING HATE AND HARASSMENT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU PANIC-STRICKEN IS
MCLURE
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL MEMBERS.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR TAYLOR.
MY NAME IS GREG THIRD WARD AND
I AM HERE CALLING ON YOU TO
SUPPORT A RESOLUTION FOR THE
CEASE FIRE IN GAZA THOUGH I
KNOW MAYOR TAYLOR, YOU HAVE
SAID THAT IT IS NOT IN YOUR
INTEREST OR IN OUR BOARDS
POTENTIAL FUTURE TO DO SUCH A
THING.
I BELIEVE THAT IT IS NOT ONLY
WITHIN OUR JURISDICTION AS OUR
TAX DOLLARS GO DIRECTLY TOWARD
FUNDING THIS SITE.
I BELIEVE THAT IT IS WITHIN OUR
MISSION OF BEING AN
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY LEADER
,OF BEING A LEADER IN JUSTICE
,DIVERSITY, EQUITY, INCLUSION
FOR WITHOUT THESE RESOLUTIONS
THE WORDS THAT WE SAY RING
HOLLOW EVERY DAY THAT WE STAND
WITHOUT SUPPORTING A RESOLUTION
IS A DAY THAT WE WILL REGRET
THAT TODAY THAT WE WILL NOT GET
BACK AND IT'S A DAY THAT
THOUSANDS OF PALESTINIANS WILL
LOSE THEIR LIVES ON.
I BELIEVE THAT IT IS A MORAL
IMPERATIVE FOR US TO CALL FOR A
CEASE FIRE.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR, DEBBIE
DINGELL IS IN SUPPORT OF A
CEASE FIRE.
I THINK IT IS ONLY NATURAL TO
SHOW HER THAT THE PEOPLE AND
THE CITY COUNCIL OF ANN ARBOR
SUPPORT HER IN THAT CALLING.
I THINK IT IS WELL WITHIN OUR
RIGHTS AND WELL WITHIN THE
JURISDICTION TO SAY
REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL, WE
SUPPORT YOU.
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR IS BEHIND
YOU IN THIS CALL FOR A
BILATERAL CEASE FIRE AND THIS
CALL TO RELEASE HOSTAGES AND
PRISONERS IN THIS CALL TO
RESPECT THE HUMANITY THAT WE
CLAIM TO STAND FOR.
I'M GOING TO GO NOW.
THANK YOU.
THE NEXT SPEAKER IS BY
ZAFAR
KORITHA NO ENDING IN FIVE SIX
FOUR FOUR STAR SIX TIME FROM
ENDING.
YES, WE CAN AGREE WITH ABOUT
THE COUNCIL RESOLUTION VERSION
OF CEASEFIRE IN GAZA AND THE
COUNCIL TO PASS A RESOLUTION TO
PREVENT THE CITY FROM USE BY
NOT ALLOWING ANY COUNTRY THAT
IS INVOLVED IN ALLEGATIONS
OF GENOCIDE.
SO LET THE COUNCIL OF LAST WEEK
AT THE LAST MEETING I MEAN DO
THINGS TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
RESPECT AND SPOKE THAT FOREIGN
POLICY.
I THINK ALL OF US UNDERSTAND
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE ANY
POLITICIANS SO IT'S WITH
ANACHRONISTICALLY AND THE
PRESIDENT WE HAVE THAT
OPPORTUNITY FOR I UNDERSTAND
WHY THE COUNCIL IS BE MEETING
ON
MAYBE I DON'T WANT TO EVEN
EVEN HAPPENING AT THE WORLD AT
MOMENT BUT IT MIGHT WOULD THAT
ME DENHA ALL BUT I WOULD BE
IT
BIT MORE BUT
YOU KNOW BUT I
THINK I'D BE ABLE I THINK THANK
YOU OUR NEXT SALAMAH NOA
CALLER
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER AGAIN ONE
EIGHT FIVE YES GO AHEAD.
OH YES I'M HERE.
HOW CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN.
OK, GREAT.
MY NAME IS SULEIMAN A AND I
WANT TO THANK EVERYBODY THAT
SHOWED UP TODAY AND SAID THESE
LONG HOURS TO VOICE THEIR
OPINION THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
OF HIM WE KNOW THAT A CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION THAT IS PASSED
BY ANY
CITY WHETHER IT'S
DETROIT OR ANN HARBOR OR
SEATTLE OR ALL OF THE CITIES
OF AMERICA WE KNOW THAT OUR
PASSING OF A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION IS NOT GOING TO
CAUSE THE FIGHTING TO STOP.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT ANY
OF U.S. OR OTHER COUNTRIES CAN
DO.
IT IS A SYMBOLIC MEASURE TO SAY
THAT THE COUNCIL HERE, THE
VOICE OF THEIR CONSTITUENTS AND
THEIR CONSTITUENTS ARE CALLING
FOR A CEASE FIRE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE THAT ARE HERE TODAY
YOU CAN SEE THAT A NUMBER
OF PEOPLE THAT ARE CALLING ON
THURSDAY THAT THIS IS WHAT YOUR
CONSTITUENTS WANT IS WHAT YOUR
REPRESENTATIVE HAS ALSO ASKED
FOR.
IT IS FOR THE UAW WORKERS ARE
CALLING FOR THE PEOPLE
OF DETROIT.
THE PEOPLE OF MICHIGAN ARE
CALLING FOR THIS AND AND HARBOR
YOU ARE FINDING RESISTANCE TO
EVEN PUT IT ON THE TABLE
BECAUSE THERE'S PROBABLY SOME
UNDERLYING REASONS BUT THEY'RE
COMING UP WITH SOME EXCUSE THAT
WE DON'T DEAL WITH THIS.
WE DO DEAL WITH THIS WITH OUR
TAX DOLLARS SUPPORT THE FUNDING
OF THE GENOCIDE.
WE DO DEAL WITH IT.
THIS IS OUR ISSUE WHEN OUR
STUDENTS ARE AT RISK OF BEING
DUMPED AND THE JUST BEING
PULLED OFF AND PEOPLE DON'T
FEEL SAFE AND YOUR CONSTITUENTS
ARE COMING AND COMPLAINING THIS
IS OUR ISSUE.
THIS IS SOMETHING YOU DO HAVE
TO BRING TO THE TABLE WHEN YOU
HATE YOUR JOB.
PAID FOR BY YOUR TAX PAYER WHEN
WE ARE PAYING FOR YOUR
ELECTRICITY BILLS TO BE ON AND
YOU'RE REFUSING TO LISTEN TO US
AND WE ASK TO PUT A RESOLUTION
ON THE TABLE YOU ARE NOT DOING
YOUR JOB.
I WANT TO ASK YOU IF YOU ARE
TRUE TO YOUR CLAIMS
OF PROGRESSIVENESS OF INCLUSIVE
INCLUSIVE LIBERALISM EQUALITY
YOUR CONSTITUENTS NOT JUST
MUSLIMS, NOT JUST ARABS, NOT
PALESTINIANS, NOT JUST THE
JEWS, ALL OF YOUR CONSTITUENTS
HERE THAT ARE PRESENT ARE
TELLING YOU THIS IS IMPORTANT
TO THEM.
ARE YOU GOING TO BE TRUE TO
YOUR CLAIM THAT YOU ARE
INCLUSIVE AND THAT YOU ARE A
PROGRESSIVE OR ARE YOU GOING TO
BE SHUTTING YOUR EARS AND
CLOSING YOUR EYES?
I WANT TO ASK YOU WHEN THE
BLACK LIVES MOVEMENT SITUATION
WAS TRENDY, WHEN THE LGBTQ
SITUATION IS TRENDY AND ALL
OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS OR MANY
OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
INCLUDING THE MAYOR INCLUDING
TRAVIS DENHA, INCLUDING CHRIS
WATSON JANAYA, WHEN WE SEE YOUR
SOCIAL MEDIA IS SHOWING SIGNS
OF STRESS AND HELP THAT YOU
SHOW YOUR SUPPORT.
SO HOW MANY KIDS DOES IT TAKE
THIS SITUATION TO BECOME TRENDY
BUT YOU CANNOT STAND UP FOR THE
CHILDREN THAT ARE TRYING TO
TELL US THAT THE WHOLE THING IS
DOING ENOUGH.
WE KNOW THIS MY RESOLUTION AND
OUR NOT DO ANYTHING BUT IT
SHOWS OUR SUPPORT FOR HUMANITY.
IT SHOWS WHAT PEOPLE THAT CARE
ABOUT THAT WE ARE NOT GOING TO
COME UP WITH CHANGES LANGUAGE
TO QUIET OUR CONSTITUENT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KM FROM
KIM
LUMP-SUM
OF US COME ON FROM I'M
FROM WARD FOR SO I WANT TO
SPEAK ABOUT PALESTINE OR THE
DIRE SITUATION IN THE MIDDLE
EAST MAY SEEM DISTANT.
IT'S ITS OWN OK GOOD EVENING.
MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL FOR
RESIDENTS AND FRIENDS WHEN THEY
COME HOME FROM WORK FOR IF I
WANT TO SPEAK ABOUT PALESTINE
WELL IT MAY SEEM THE STATE ITS
REPERCUSSIONS ARE STILL FELT IN
OUR COMMUNITY SUPPORTING A
CEASEFIRE.
THE ONLY WAY TO STAY TRUE TO
OUR COMMUNITY VALUES
OF COMPASSION AND EMPATHY.
WE HAVE TO STAND FOR PEACE.
A CEASEFIRE WOULD NOT ONLY BE
ESSENTIAL FOR SAVING LIVES BUT
ALSO BE A CRUCIAL STEP TOWARDS
DIPLOMATIC NEGOTIATIONS.
IT PROVIDES THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
DIALOG AND PAVES THE WAY FOR
FINDING A LASTING SOLUTIONS
THAT DEEP ROOTED ISSUES THAT
FEEL THE CONFLICT AND THE CITY
COUNCIL TO CONSIDER THE GRAVITY
OF THE SITUATION AND TO TAKE A
PRINCIPLED STAND FOR PEACE
SUPPORTING THE RESOLUTION
AFFIRMING OUR COMMITMENT AND
SUPPORT FOR THE CONGRESSIONAL
WHY CALLS FOR AN IMMEDIATE
CEASEFIRE IN GAZA A COMMUNITY
LIKE MANY OTHERS AROUND THE
WORLD WATCHES AND WAITS FOR THE
SIGNAL THAT HUMANITY VALUES
LIFE OVER CONFLICT.
PLEASE UNDERSTAND THAT BEING
COMPLICIT IN THIS KIND
OF SITUATION A GENOCIDE IS
NEVER HUMANE BUT ON YOUR HANDS
IF YOU DON'T THEN TAKE A STAND
AGAINST OPPRESSION.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
CONSIDERATION.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DONALD.
IT
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BEN CURTIS
.
BEN CURTIS
, OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
JUSTIN ONE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LAURIE
CHUNG
.
I'M SORRY WHICH ONE?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WHAT IS THIS THE PHONE NUMBER
LAST VESTIGES OF THIS PHONE
NUMBER.
THANK YOU.
WHERE JUSTIN ONE YES.
IT'S ONLINE.
CALL HER THE PHONE NUMBER AND
AN EIGHT ZERO SEVEN.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
HI.
WE CAN HEAR YOU.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
MY NAME IS A MEMBER OF THE
DEMOCRATIC CORPORATE AMERICA, A
UNION MEMBER AND I PRETEND THAT
MY APARTMENT WHERE I LIVE AS A
LOCAL AND A UNION ORGANIZER I
KNOW THAT THE STRUGGLE FOR
PEACE AND JUSTICE IN PALESTINE
EVERYWHERE IT IS PROBABLY WORTH
ABOUT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IF
YOU NEED ANOTHER RESOLUTION TO
CALL FOR A PERMANENT CEASE FIRE
COMMISSION, CONGRESSIONAL
REPRESENTATIVES SUPPORT FOR A
CEASE FIRE AND TO A PERMANENT
COMMITMENT TO FIGHTING
HOMOPHOBIA IN EVERY PALESTINIAN
AND THE ARAB LEAGUE AND CITIES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND YOUR
DECISION LIKE PRIVATE DEARBORNE
OR PERMANENT CEASE FIRE AND I
MUST BE UNITED AUTO WORKERS
UNION ELECTRICAL WORKERS THE
AMERICAN WORKERS UNION AND
COUNTLESS OTHER UNIONS FOR
CEASEFIRE.
WE MUST ALL MICHIGAN
CONGRESSIONAL MEMBERS FLEET
BUSH AND OTHERS AND VOTED FOR
PERMANENT CEASE FIRE AND AGAIN
FOR THE AGES IT'S REALLY WAR
MACHINE REPUBLICAN AND OUR
COMMUNITY DO MATTER TO THOSE
YOU REPRESENT AS WELL AS YOUR
FELLOW AT THE STATE LEVEL
HOWEVER MUCH OR HOWEVER LITTLE
HAMTRAMCK, DETROIT AND ANN
ARBOR CAN EXERT PRESSURE
INTERNATIONAL INTEREST TO DO SO
AND JUST AS MANIFESTO PROBLEM
AND SO CLOSELY AS BIGOTRY I
THINK AND PLEASE FOLLOW RIGHT
HERE IN LIKE THANK YOU
OUR NEXT
SPEAKERS LAURA CHUNG
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS OF KING.
I NEVER A CITY COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS NADKARNI.
I'M THE RABBI BETH ISRAEL
CONGREGATION MOSHIN AVENUE IN
ANN ARBOR ON FRIDAY AFTERNOON I
SAT WITH ONE OF OUR FAMILIES
WHOSE EIGHT YEAR OLD SON IS THE
TARGET OF STATEMENTS BY HIS
CLASSMATES AT ANN ARBOR, ONE
OF THE HONORABLE PUBLIC
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS THAT ISRAEL
IS EVIL AND THEY LIKE TO KILL
PEOPLE.
I TOLD THEM DON'T FEAR WE'RE
GOING TO CALL OUR THE TEACHER,
WE'LL CALL THE PRINCIPAL.
I'VE HAD GOOD LUCK BEFORE WE
ALL CARE ABOUT OUR CHILDREN.
WE WANT THEM PROTECTED AND THEY
BEG ME NOT TO DO SO.
THEY SAID ACTUALLY I FEEL LIKE
THE MOOD OR AT THIS POINT IN
OUR PUBLIC SCHOOL DISTRICT AND
COMING OVER ANN ARBOR IS THAT
PEOPLE LIKE THOSE STATEMENTS
SUPPORT THOSE STATEMENTS AND
ADMINISTRATOR WILL JUST PRETEND
NOT TO AGREE WITH THEM.
BUT WE'LL SECRETLY WANT TO
CONDONE THEM AND WILL NOT BE
SUPPORTIVE OF OUR CHILD AND
THEY WILL FACE RETRIBUTION
LATER WHICH DOES HAPPEN
UNFORTUNATELY IN CASES
OF BULLYING THAT IS CALLED OUT
.
I WAS HOPING WHEN I CAME HERE
TONIGHT THAT I WOULD HEAR FROM
OTHERS BUT DEEP A DEEP SENSE
OF COMPASSION FOR BOTH SIDES AS
I RECENTLY EXPRESSED AND
THANKSGIVING INTERFAITH SERVICE
HERE IN ANN ARBOR AND DEEP
COMPASSION.
WHAT I'VE HEARD IS SOMETHING
OF A PARTY ATMOSPHERE OF HIGH
FIVES AND GLEE THAT SEEM TO BE
CELEBRATING ONLY ONE SIDE AND
SEEM TO BE WANTING TO BLAME
ISRAEL AND BY IMPLICATION JEWS
IN ANN ARBOR AND I DO NOT
CONSIDER THAT IMMORAL SIDE I
THINK THAT I REMEMBER THAT
AFTER 9/11 WHEN SO MANY EDITA
OLDS IN THE PAPERS WERE ABOUT
BEING BRAVE TO CONDEMN ISLAMISM
AND NOT BEING SHY ABOUT DOING
SO.
I FOLLOWED THE RABBI OF MY
CONGREGATION IN CALIFORNIA
EVERY DAY AFTER AFTER WORSHIP
TO EAT AND PATRONIZE
PALESTINIAN MUSLIM BUSINESSES
TO SHOW THAT WE'RE ONE
COMMUNITY AND THAT WHAT HAPPENS
IN THE GEOPOLITICAL STAGE
SHOULD NOT BE AROUND
SCAPEGOATING THE RESIDENTS
OF OUR LOCAL TOWN BECAUSE WE
STAND WITH EACH OTHER.
I WAS HOPING TO HEAR SOMETHING
ABOUT A CEASE FIRE THAT
RECOGNIZED WE CALL FOR A CEASE
FIRE AND THE RETURN
OF THE
HOSTAGES AND IN FACT WE CALL ON
HAMAS TO TURN OVER ALL HAMAS
OPERATIVES INVOLVED IN THE
PLANNING AND EXECUTION OF ONE
OF THE MOST DISGUSTING AND
BRUTAL AND INHUMANE CONFLICTS
AND ACTIONS AND MASSACRES
OF OUR TIME.
BUT I DID NOT HEAR THAT EXCEPT
I DID HEAR THAT FROM MEMBERS
OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
I'M IN FAVOR OF ALL RESOLUTIONS
THAT CALL FOR TRUE HUMANITY AND
SEEING ANN ARBOR NEIGHBORS AS
OUR NEIGHBORS AND AVOIDING THE
SCAPEGOATING THAT LEADS TO
CHILDREN IN SCHOOLS BEING
BLAMED FOR INTERNATIONAL
CONFLICTS.
I THANK THE HONORABLE CITY
COUNCIL FOR THE FACT THAT I
HEARD THAT MORAL VOICE AND YOU
THANK IS KRISTEN HAYDEN
.
KRISTEN HAYDEN, THANK YOU.
HI, I'M KRISTEN.
I'M AWARD TO PRESIDENT.
I'M SPEAKING TONIGHT IN SUPPORT
OF BRINGING FORTH AND VOTING
YES ON A CEASE FIRE FIRST
WHETHER YOUR CONSTITUENTS ARE
CONTACTING YOU ASKING TO VOTE
YES OR ASKING YOU FOR A
RESOLUTION, I WOULD ASK YOU TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THEY'RE ASKING
FOR.
MAYBE NOT HOW THEY'RE ASKING
FOR IT BECAUSE YOU AS A COUNCIL
PERSON KNOW THE NEXT STEP THAT
NEEDS TO BE TAKEN.
I WANT TO BRING THE POINT AGAIN
ABOUT WHY ARBOR DOESN'T WANT TO
PASS THE RESOLUTION AND YOU'VE
HEARD MANY PERSONAL STORIES AND
SO I KNOW YOU ALREADY KNOW THAT
INFORMATION BUT IT IS
PARTICULARLY RELEVANT TO TALK
ABOUT THIS GLOBAL TOPIC BECAUSE
WE DO FUND THE VIOLENCE
INFLICTED ON PALESTINIANS
PERSONALLY AND IF OUR MONEY IS
GOING TO BE USED LIKE AT
FEDERAL LEVELS, WE HAVE TO
SPEAK STRAIGHT TO OUR ELECTED
OFFICIALS AT THAT LEVEL AND THE
BEST WAY THAT WE CAN DO THAT IS
WITH YOU GUYS SPEAKING WITH OUR
VOICE IN CONCERT WITH DEARBORN
AND DETROIT AND OUR FRIENDS IN
THE UAW.
THE CEASEFIRE WOULD ALSO AID IN
PROTECTING OUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHO ARE EXPERIENCING
DIRECT HARM DUE TO RACISM, ANTI
ISLAMOPHOBIA, ANTI-SEMITISM AND
REPRESSION OF FREE SPEECH BY
SAYING ANN ARBOR STANDS WITH
THEM AND PALESTINIANS IN OUR
COMMUNITIES YOU SAY YOU WANT TO
PROTECT CONSTITUENTS.
THAT'S THE WAY TO DO IT.
I ASK YOU TO RECOGNIZE THE
URGENCY OF THIS MOMENT AND
BRING FORTH AND WORK FOR CEASE
FIRE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
THANK YOU.
NEXT IS THE DOCUMENTARY
NADOL
SHEETRIT.
SHE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE A LINE
CALL HER IF YOU'RE ON THE PHONE
WITH PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN
EIGHT NINE EIGHT NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND
.
I DON'T THINK SHE'S ON THE CALL
ANYMORE
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THE
CESSPITS
.
THIS IS SPETZ.
CALL HER THE PHONE NUMBER IN
ONE ZERO EIGHT FOUR STAR NINE
IF YOU'RE ON THE LINE
I DON'T
THINK SHE'S ON THE CALL EITHER
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LARRY YOKUM
LARRY YONKE PHONE RUNNING A
.
NINE FOUR FIVE GO AHEAD FOUR
LARRY YONKE PHONE RUNNING A
STAR NINE OR STAR SIX YOUR
NINE FOUR FIVE GO AHEAD FOUR
PHONE
GO AHEAD CALLER.
THANK YOU VERY AMERICAN
PHYSICIAN AND PROFESSOR FROM
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL
SCHOOL AT CITY.
DO EVERYTHING IN YOUR POWER TO
PROMOTE USE OF ELECTRICITY FOR
FUEL IN NEW CONSTRUCTION IN ANN
ARBOR, UNPOPULAR NEW MAPPIN
FORMERLY KNOWN AS METROJET THE
RED TAPE OUT COPPERFIELD'S IN
PART BECAUSE OF OUR CLIMATE.
ONE OF MY MOTIVES FOR TAKING
ACTION TO MINIMIZE CLIMATE
CHANGE IS THE HEALTH
CONSEQUENCES INCLUDE NOT ONLY
THE OBVIOUS ONE BUT THE HEAT
EMERGENCY, EXTREME WEATHER
EVENTS AND WILDFIRES BUT THAT
MAY BE WELL LET ALONE NEW
MALARIA AND DENGUE FEVER.
GET UP ON THESE LARGE NUMBERS
OF PEOPLE IN THIRD WORLD
COUNTRY EVERY YEAR WE MADE
INROADS IN THE UNITED STATES
BECAUSE OF ONGOING CHANGES IN
THE U.S. FAVORABLE FOR MOSQUITO
AGRICULTURE IN MICHIGAN AND
ELSEWHERE WILL BE INCREASINGLY
THREATENED BY THE CHANGING
CLIMATE THREATENING OUR ECONOMY
AND POTENTIALLY BEING FROM THE
OUR PEOPLE.
NOW FOR MOVING TOWARD BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION OF WIND ENERGY
FOR HEATING AND COOKING AND
WATER HEATING IN OUR HOMES AND
BUSINESSES THAT GENERATED BY
BURNING COAL OR METHANE.
THE RESULTING CO2 CONTRIBUTE TO
WORKING IN CLIMATE CHANGE.
BUT WHEN OUR HOMES ARE FULLY
ELECTRIFIED NO CO2 IS GENERATED
YET THE ELECTRICITY COMES FROM
SUSTAINABLE WIND SO IT BY
AMERICAN AGRICULTURAL AFFLUENCE
SHOULD HELP TO ENSURE THAT OUR
ELECTRICITY WILL COME
SUSTAINABLE FIRST AND THAT WILL
BE REQUIRED HERE IN ABOUT 30 OR
50 PERCENT OF THEIR POWER BY
2030 PERCENT BY 2035.
WELL WITHIN THE LIFETIME OF ANY
NEWLY FURNISHED BOILERS AND
WATER HEATER AT THE PLANT WILL
BE OBSOLETE EARLY IN THEIR
LIFETIME HIGHLIGHTING THE
ABSURDITY OF INSTALLING THESE
LIMITATIONS THE ABILITY TO
REQUIRE ELECTRIFICATION THERE
IS MUCH YOU CAN DO.
YOU CAN INFORM DEVELOPERS THAT
INCORPORATE YOUR PLAN IS
STRONGLY SUPPORTED BY OUR
CITIZENS INCLUDING 71 PERCENT
OF VOTERS SUPPORTING THE 20 22
MILLION OUR CITIZENS WANT CLEAN
ENERGY NOT FOSSIL FUEL.
YOU CAN EMPATHIZE WITH LOUD AND
CLEAR BUT ALSO EFFECTIVELY IN
NEGOTIATIONS WITH DEVELOPERS
ALSO INVOLVED IN DELIBERATIONS
AND COUNCIL THREE AND YOU
PLAYED THEM IN AND OUT IN COURT
FOR TURKMEN TREATMENT THE GULF
WILL BE COUNTERACTED BY SEVERAL
PATENTS FROM ELECTRIFICATION.
WELL RUNNING THINGS ARE
POSSIBLE THAT CAN BE USED FOR
LEVERITT.
THE CITY COULD INITIATE A
PUBLICITY CAMPAIGN FOR THE
BENEFIT FOR ELECTRIFICATION.
WE WOULD WORK WITH OUR MICHIGAN
LEGISLATURE TO ALLOW OUR CLINIC
TO REQUIRE WE COULD CONSIDER
FINANCIAL INCENTIVES ON.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MUHAMMAD
ALI SLOVIC
MUHAMMAD COLEA
AUVI-Q
, OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
DEQI ALEXANDER
WAS ASKED AS AN
AIDE TO PRESIDENT OCCASIONAL
WELCOME TO OUR LOCAL POLITICAL
AND THE CURRENT BOARD PRESIDENT
OF THE JEWISH FEDERATION
OF GREATER ATLANTA WHERE WE
WERE DURING THE LAST CITY
COUNCIL'S PUBLIC COMMENTS
COMMENTS THAT WERE THE SOME
CACOPHONY OF WHITE NOISE
DEMANDING THAT YOU THIS COUNCIL
WEIGH IN ON THE ISRAEL HAMAS
WAR AND CRAFT A RESOLUTION LIKE
THE CITY OF YPSILANTI.
ONE SIDE IS SPINNING AND SOUND
BITES FULL OF WORDS WHICH
DIVIDE RATHER THAN BRIDGE
RESOLUTION A RESOLUTION THAT
WAS INTENDED TO HARM RATHER
THAN HEAL AND ACTUALLY HINDER
ANY TYPE OF CROSS-CULTURAL
RELATIONS BETWEEN JEWS, MUSLIMS
AND ARABS.
WHILE WE WERE BUSY WORKING TO
HAVE THAT RESOLUTION RESCINDED
SIDEBAR IT WAS NOT JUST BECAUSE
WAS PLAGIARIZED FROM RESOLUTION
BETWEEN CALIFORNIA OR ITS
PLAGIARIZES DELETED ANY MENTION
OF EMPATHY FOR THE JEWISH
EXPERIENCE AND OUR OWN
GENERATIONAL TRAUMA BUT MOSTLY
BECAUSE THIS RESOLUTION DID
WHAT HAMAS WANTS TO DO TO JEWS
EVERY PLACE IT ARREST US.
BUT TODAY I AM WE ARE STILL
HERE UNDERSTANDABLY MANY
CITIZENS IN A CITY COUNCIL IS
THEIR ONLY VOICE IN THE
POLITICAL ARENA AND THUS
REQUESTING A RESOLUTION ON A
GEOPOLITICAL CONFLICT TO SOME
SEEMS OBVIOUS YOU ARE HERE BUT
YOU'RE HERE ARE PAKHTUN REX
CRACKS AND SIDEWALKS CHEMICALS
IN THE WATER FIX ROADS AND
BROUGHT BIKE LANES AND THIS IS
YOUR LANDSCAPE.
THIS ISN'T TO SAY YOU CANNOT
CARE NOR EMPATHIZE BUT A
RESOLUTION ON A WAR THAT IS
INCREDIBLY DIVISIVE WILL ONLY
FOSTER MORE DIVISIVE.
THIS ARE IN OUR IS TOO DIVERSE
IN BELIEFS AND BACKGROUNDS FOR
A RESOLUTION TO SPEAK THE RIGHT
WORDS AND HIT THE RIGHT TONE
TODAY MANY HAVE SAY YOU CREATE
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING A CEASE
FIRE WITHOUT HAMAS LAYING DOWN
ITS ARMS.
REMEMBER AS GHAZI OF HAMAS SAID
ON LEBANESE TV WE WILL REPEAT
THE OCTOBER SEVEN ATTACK TIME
TIME AGAIN UNTIL ISRAEL JEWS
ARE ANNIHILATED.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU AS PEOPLE
PONTIFICATE AND PLEAD FOR YOU
TO PUT FORTH A RESOLUTION ONE
THAT WOULD ONLY SERVE TO DIVIDE
AND TAKE THIS COUNCIL DOWN A
PATH OF NO RETURN TO LOOK AT
YOUR OWN H0 INITIATIVE, YOU LAY
OUT A VISION FOR WHAT AND HOW
ANN ARBOR SHOULD STRIVE TO BE
EQUITABLE ENSURING EVERYONE
GETS WHAT THEY NEED TO SUCCEED
AND WHERE THEY ARE AND WHERE
THEY NEED TO GO SUSTAINABLE
MEANING THE NEEDS OF THE
PRESENT WITHOUT JEOPARDIZING
THE ABILITY THE FUTURE.
AND LASTLY TRANSFORMATION TO DO
SOMETHING FOR SOMEONE THAT
MAKES IT OR THEM BETTER AT THIS
TIME ANY RESOLUTION ON THE
ISRAEL HAMAS WOULD NOT MAKE ME
USE OR THE CITY BETTER IN
I
QUITE HONESTLY QUITE HONESTLY
MAKE US WORSE.
SO LET'S TALK THEIR ENERGY INTO
WHAT WE CAN MAKE BETTER AND
CHANGE HERE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GIZELLE,
BURIEN HELLO.
IT'S DECELERATOR BARRIOS.
THANK YOU.
AS YOU'VE BEEN CORRECTED BEFORE
SO I HOPE THAT YOU GUYS DON'T
COME AGAIN WITH BLANK STARES.
YOU GUYS LOOKED AT ONE PERSON
AND THAT WAS THE PERSON PRIOR
TO ME THIS ENTIRE TIME ALL
OF YOU ONLY LOOKED AT HER.
I WANT YOU TO LOOK AT ME AND
LISTEN TO WHAT I AM SAYING.
I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU GUYS
DON'T WANT TO PROPOSE THIS
RESOLUTION.
I COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND THAT
IT'S NOT ABOUT MY LIFE.
IT'S ABOUT YOUR LIFE.
IT'S ALL LIVES MATTER UNTIL
IT'S BLACK LIVES MATTER IT'S
ALL LIVES MATTER UNTIL BROWN
LIVES MATTER IT'S ALL LIES
MATTER UNTIL PALESTINIAN LIVES
MATTER.
IT'S EMBARRASSING FOR YOU TO
CONSIDER YOURSELF A DIVERSE
CITY AND NOT CONSIDER OUR
VOICES.
WE HAVE A MAJORITY HERE WHO
WANT TO PROPOSE A RESOLUTION
FOR A CEASE FIRE A CEASE FIRE
THAT WOULD END SENSELESS
VIOLENCE, A GENOCIDE THE
PALESTINIANS DID NOT ASK FOR.
THEY DON'T DESERVE IT AND TO
CALL IT AN OPEN AIR PRISON WHY
IS IT A PRISON IF THEY ARE NOT
CRIMINALS TO USE RHETORIC THAT
IS DANGEROUS AND HARMFUL TO SAY
THAT WHEN YOU GUYS ARE
PROPOSING SOMETHING YOU PUT
ISRAEL BEFORE PALESTINE.
IS THERE A REASON FOR THAT?
I AM A DAUGHTER OF A SURVIVOR
OF THE SALVADORIAN WAR.
THE SALVADORIAN WAR WAS FUNDED
BY THE US GOVERNMENT AND IT WAS
AIDED BY THE MILITARY OF THE
ISRAELI GOVERNMENT.
MY MOTHER HAD TO FLEE HER HOME
IN ORDER TO FIND ANY KIND OR
SANCTUARY TO FIND ANY TYPE
OF PEACE.
AND STILL TO THIS DAY THERE ARE
STILL REMNANTS OF THAT.
SHE CANNOT GO BACK.
HER HOME IS NOT THERE.
THE PEOPLE THAT SHE ONCE RAN
AROUND THE STREETS WITH ARE NO
LONGER THERE.
THE MEMORIES THAT SHE HAD EVER
SCARCELY REMEMBER ARE NOT THERE
ANYMORE.
I MOURN WITH THE PALESTINIANS.
THEIR HOME IS NO LONGER THEIR
HOME.
JEN, I HOPE THAT WHEN YOU GUYS
ARE LISTENING TO US YOU ARE
LISTENING TO HER.
PLEASE.
IT'S NOT A TWO SIDED THING
HUMAN RIGHTS IS NOT TWO SIDED.
YEAH.
WE WANT TO SAVE LIVES.
WE WANT GOING TO BE ON THE SIDE
OF THE PEOPLE IF YOU WANT
SOMETHING THAT IS A RESOLUTION
THAT COMBINES A COMMUNITY WELL
WE'RE HERE.
LISTEN TO US.
YOU WANT TO KNOW MORE ABOUT
WHAT THE COMMUNITY AND THEIR
CONCERNS ARE.
ASK US.
WE'RE RIGHT HERE.
PLEASE CONSIDER A RESOLUTION
FOR AN IMMEDIATE CEASE FIRE IN
GAZA.
IT'S THE LEAST YOU COULD DO THE
ABSOLUTE BARE MINIMUM
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS DR. ABEED
.
I ASK FOR YOU ALL TO ALSO LOOK
AT ME TO EACH AND EVERY ONE I
CONDEMN WHAT HAMAS DID ON
OCTOBER SEVEN.
EVERY SINGLE ONE OF US CONDEMNS
THAT WE WILL SUPPORT THE RABBI
WHO SAID THAT NO ONE SHOULD BE
SCAPEGOATED IN ANN ARBOR.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THIS DISCUSSION
IS ABOUT.
THIS DISCUSSION IS TO STOP
GENOCIDE THE BEAR THE MAYOR
PLEASE HOLD UP BECAUSE THE
MAYOR MENTIONED TO ME OR
MENTION TO ALL THOSE THAT WE
CAN'T DEAL WITH ALL ILLS.
NO ONE IS SAYING FOR YOU ALL TO
DEAL WITH ALL THIS IS GENOCIDE
AND I'M SORRY PLEASE RESIGN
FROM THE HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATION IF YOU DON'T
UNDERSTAND THAT.
EIGHT HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
SCHOLARS OF GENOCIDE HOLOCAUST
HAVE WRITTEN A STATEMENT ON
OCTOBER 15TH THAT THEY AGREE
THAT THIS IS A JOKE, A GENOCIDE
ONE OF THEM AND MANY OF HAVE
ACTUALLY MENTIONED THAT THIS IS
A TEXTBOOK CASE OF GENOCIDE
LIKE THE JEWISH ISRAELI SCHOLAR
OF HOLOCAUST GENOCIDE STUDIES
MR. SIEGEL WHO'S INSTRUCTING
UNIVERSITY NOT PART OF WHO IS
ACCORDING TO OUR HOLOCAUST
MUSEUM, HE'S ONE OF THE BEST.
HE SAID THAT THIS IS A MOUNTAIN
TO GENOCIDE.
SO YOU ALL SAY THAT COME TO US
WHEN WHEN WHEN WE WERE IN PAIN.
WELL, THERE'S INFINITELY
NOTHING ELSE MORE IN THEIR OWN
PAIN AND A GENOCIDE TO LISTEN
TO US ABOUT THAT.
AND ERIKA BREAKS YOU NEED TO
APOLOGIZE FOR US.
THE BEHEADED STORIES MAX
BLUMENTHAL, ACCLAIMED JEWISH
HISTORIAN WHO CONTRIBUTED TO
THE NEW YORK TIMES WHO'S
CONTRIBUTE TO THE LOS ANGELES
TIMES.
HE HAS SHOWN HOW THAT'S WHAT
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS RETRACTED
THAT THE WHOLE 40 BABIES THINK
THAT'S WHAT LED TO RIGHT HERE
FOR YOU TO BE STABBED BY HIS
LANDLORD CONNIE TIMES TO DEATH
AFTER THE LANDLORD GAVE THAT
BOY TOYS DAYS AFTER HE HEARD
THAT THAT FAKE BABY STORY THAT
HE STABBED HIM AT.
AND ALL THESE THINGS ARE A LOT
OF THESE THINGS ARE LIES MAX
BLUMENTHAL THINK.
BUT YOU KNOW, I SAID WHY THOSE
BABIES HUNDREDS OF THEM WHO ARE
THOUSANDS OF THEM WHO'VE BEEN
MURDERED BY OUR TAX DOLLARS,
INCLUDING MANY WHO HAVE BEEN
SUFFOCATED TO DEATH AS IT WAS
PULLED OUT OF THE YEAH.
THOSE MACHINES AND THE RABBI
HERE HE WAS MENTIONING THAT
THERE'S NO MENTION OF THE
HOSTAGES OR WHATEVER.
FINE.
ADD THAT IN THAT THE HOSTAGES
SHOULD BE RELEASED AT THAT
PALESTINIAN WHO THE CAPTORS
SHOULD BE RELEASED SO WE'RE ALL
IN AGREEMENT.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO GET RID
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE WHO ARE
STANDING SILENT WHETHER THEY'RE
AT THIS LEVEL, THE SENATORIAL
LEVEL OR ANY LEVEL.
ALL OF US NEED TO GET THE
PERSON COMPETED IN GENOCIDE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS A FUNNY
THANKS EVERYBODY FOR SHOWING UP
TONIGHT.
I AM HONORED TO BE IN YOUR
COMPANY.
I WAS FEELING VERY LONELY UNTIL
YOU ARRIVED AND I THANK YOU FOR
THAT.
THIS CITY COUNCIL IS VERY
RESISTANT TO THIS IDEA AND BY
RESISTING SUCH SIMPLE,
BRAINLESS, ABSOLUTE MINIMUM
THING THEY CAN SAY AT A TIME
OF A GENOCIDE
THEIR
CONSTITUENTS YOUNG PEOPLE HERE,
ALL PEOPLE CAN SEE DRAGGING
THEIR FEET AND HESITATE TO SAY
STOP KILLING CHILDREN, THEY CAN
SEE THAT AND THEY CAN SEE THAT
YOU ARE DOING IT AND YOU ARE
LOSING YOUR CREDIBILITY.
YOU SHOW THEM THAT YOU HAVE NO
MORAL INTEGRITY AND THIS IS
SICKENING US.
IT IS SICKENING TO SEE.
AND AS DR. OMAR JUST SAID, I AM
ALSO ASKING MISS IESHA TO
RESIGN FROM HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION BECAUSE IF SHE
DOESN'T HAVE ENOUGH MIND OF HER
OWN TO SAY THIS IS A GENOCIDE
IF SHE DOESN'T RUN AND PASS A
RESOLUTION HERSELF WITHOUT US
TRYING TO PUSH HER, IF SHE
DOESN'T DO IT ON HER OWN THEN
SHE HAS NO PLACE ON A HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION.
WHEN I FIRST CAME TO THIS TOWN
I THOUGHT WHAT A WONDERFUL
PLACE THEY HAD HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND IMMEDIATELY WENT
THERE TO SAY SOMETHING ABOUT
PALESTINE AFTER MONTHS
OF CAMPAIGNING TO GO GET THESE
GUNS AND WHAT DO I FIND WHAT
THE ZIONIST WHO WILL DO NOTHING
UNTIL THEY'RE ALLOWED TO DO IT
AND THEY WILL NEVER BE ALLOWED
TO SAY ONE WORD FOR PALESTINIAN
RIGHTS.
ANOTHER CALLED I WANTED TO MAKE
IS THAT WHILE YOU GUYS WERE
BICKERING ABOUT MOWING THE LAWN
I COULD THINK ABOUT IS THIS
PROCEDURE THAT THE IDF
PERFORMED RELEASED OCTOBER 7TH.
THEY CALLED IT MOWING THE LAWN.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
THAT MEANS DENHA BODY AND MOTOR
VEHICLE PALESTINIAN CHILDREN
AND THEN THEY WOULD GO OUT.
THAT WAS THEIR IDEA OF MOWING
THE LAWN ALL THE TIME THEY WERE
DOING WAS HERE I WAS TELLING
YOU ABOUT IT DENHA STOP IT AND
YOU DID NOTHING BUT I TELL YOU
SOMETHING THAT'S THERE MAN.
I TELL SOMETHING THIS BODY AND
WHEN I'M ASKING YOU WHO ARE
SOCIAL TO EVEN LOOK AT ME AND
YOU SHOULD BE ASHAMED I TELL
YOU ONE THING YOU IT IS CLEAR
THERE IS HUNDREDS
ACROSS THE
UNITED STATES WE WILL KEEP
CUTTING HERE.
WE WILL FORCE YOU TO EMBRACE
YOUR OWN HUMANITY AND DIGNITY
BY PASSING RESOLUTIONS TO STOP
THIS GENOCIDE, STOP THIS
GENOCIDE.
LET NO THANK YOU
.
I DO NOT STAND WITH BOTH SIDES.
I DON'T EVER STAND WITH THE
SLAVEHOLDER.
I STAND WITH A SLAVE.
I DON'T EVER STAND WITH TRULY
NAZI STATE OF ISRAEL WHICH HAS
BUTCHERED TWENTY THOUSAND PLUS
PALESTINIANS WITH TWO THOUSAND
POUND US BOMBS NO, I STAND WITH
THE CHILDREN OF GAZA, THE
CHILDREN OF GAZA WHO HAVE
SURVIVED THE CHILDREN OF GAZA
WHO ARE STILL ALIVE SO FAR THIS
BIG TURNOUT IS JUST THE
BEGINNING.
IT TELLS ME IT TELLS ME
SPEAKING FOR MYSELF THAT FROM
THE RIVER TO THE SEA PALESTINE
WILL BE FREE AS A PRIOR SPEAKER
SAID THIS HASSOUNA AND HARBOR
CITY COUNCIL DOES APPROVE
RESOLUTIONS ON INTERNATIONAL
MATTERS WHEN IT FEELS LIKE IT.
FOR EXAMPLE, ITS RESOLUTION ON
IRAQ IN THOUSAND AND TO LET ME
ADD THERE IS A MORE AND ARBOR
CITY COUNCIL FELT LIKE PASSING
RESOLUTIONS REGARDING BURMA SO
IT DID IT WANTED TO PASS THE
RESOLUTION ON SOUTH AFRICA SO
RESOLUTION ON WENDYS
IT DID IT WANTED TO PASS THE
INTERNATIONAL LABOR PRACTICES.
RESOLUTION ON WENDYS
SO IT DID AND HARBOR CITY
INTERNATIONAL LABOR PRACTICES.
COUNCIL ALSO WANTED TO PASS THE
SO IT DID AND HARBOR CITY
RESOLUTION ON ATOMIC WEAPONS
COUNCIL ALSO WANTED TO PASS THE
AND IT DID IT WANTED TO PASS A
RESOLUTION ON ATOMIC WEAPONS
RESOLUTION AGAINST GENETICALLY
AND IT DID IT WANTED TO PASS A
MODIFIED FOOD.
RESOLUTION AGAINST GENETICALLY
SO IT DID AND YOU CAN WELL
MODIFIED FOOD.
PASS A RESOLUTION AGAINST
SO IT DID AND YOU CAN WELL
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL AS WE
PASS A RESOLUTION AGAINST
HAVE BEEN ASKING YOU FOR TWENTY
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL AS WE
YEARS AND OF COURSE OF COURSE A
HAVE BEEN ASKING YOU FOR TWENTY
RESOLUTION FOR A TOTAL AND
YEARS AND OF COURSE OF COURSE A
PERMANENT CEASE FIRE IN GAZA.
RESOLUTION FOR A TOTAL AND
OF COURSE THAT SHOULD GO
PERMANENT CEASE FIRE IN GAZA.
WITHOUT SAYING NO TODAY YOU SEE
OF COURSE THAT SHOULD GO
A CITY COUNCIL FULLY UNITED TO
WITHOUT SAYING NO TODAY YOU SEE
MURDER ENTIRE CITY BLOCKS
A CITY COUNCIL FULLY UNITED TO
OF THE GAZA STRIP WITH THEIR
MURDER ENTIRE CITY BLOCKS
TAX DOLLARS GOING TO ISRAEL AND
OF THE GAZA STRIP WITH THEIR
THEIR POLITICAL SUPPORT GOING
TAX DOLLARS GOING TO ISRAEL AND
TO ISRAEL.
THEIR POLITICAL SUPPORT GOING
YOU SEE A CITY COUNCIL UNITED
TO ISRAEL.
AND I DON'T WANT THAT KIND
YOU SEE A CITY COUNCIL UNITED
OF UNITY.
AND I DON'T WANT THAT KIND
LET'S HAVE A LITTLE DIVISION
OF UNITY.
HERE.
LET'S HAVE A LITTLE DIVISION
DON'T BE UNITED FOR MURDERING
HERE.
WHOLE HOSPITAL FULL OF BABIES
DON'T BE UNITED FOR MURDERING
IN THE GAZA STRIP.
WHOLE HOSPITAL FULL OF BABIES
DON'T BE UNITED FOR GENOCIDE BY
IN THE GAZA STRIP.
ISRAEL THAT YOU PAY FOR.
DON'T BE UNITED FOR GENOCIDE BY
NO, DON'T BE A MARTYR TO MURDER
ISRAEL THAT YOU PAY FOR.
TWENTY THOUSAND PALESTINIANS
NO, DON'T BE A MARTYR TO MURDER
INCLUDING SEVEN THOUSAND WHO
TWENTY THOUSAND PALESTINIANS
ARE BURIED UNDER THE RUBBLE
INCLUDING SEVEN THOUSAND WHO
WHERE ONLY HUNGRY DOGS CAN
ARE BURIED UNDER THE RUBBLE
REACH THEM.
WHERE ONLY HUNGRY DOGS CAN
WE'RE ONLY RODENTS CAN REACH
REACH THEM.
THEM.
WE'RE ONLY RODENTS CAN REACH
JUST PASS THE RESOLUTION YOU
THEM.
WORTHLESS.
JUST PASS THE RESOLUTION YOU
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KOSHER
WORTHLESS.
HALAL
BISHAR HELLO.
YET GET OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
CIMA SUCKLEY YANIQUE
GOOD
EVENING MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL.
THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME SPEAK.
MY NAME IS CIMA GIANI.
PLEASE REMEMBER HOW TO
PRONOUNCE IT CORRECTLY FOR THE
FUTURE LIKE MANY OF THE PEOPLE
HERE TONIGHT I'M HERE TO
PRESENT AND HOPEFULLY INSPIRE
YOU ALL TO CONSIDER PASSING THE
RESOLUTION WE HAVE DRAFTED THAT
ASKS FOR A PERMANENT AND
IMMEDIATE CEASE FIRE IN GAZA AS
WELL AS PUTS FORWARD A
COMMITMENT TO COMBATING
ANTI-SEMITISM, ISLAMOPHOBIA AND
ANTI PALESTINIAN ANTIKYTHERA
BIGOTRY WITHIN ANN NABIL AS
WELL AS DIVESTMENT FROM ISRAELI
COMPANIES.
WHEN WE CAME TO YOU AT THE LAST
CITY COUNCIL MEETING AND IN
CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS PRIOR YOU
TOLD US THAT A RESOLUTION LIKE
THIS WOULD NOT FALL WITHIN YOUR
JURISDICTION.
THIS IS A SENTIMENT THAT HAS
BEEN REPEATED TONIGHT.
HOWEVER, HISTORICALLY YOUR
PREVIOUS ACTIONS AS THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER TALKED ABOUT
SPEAKS DIFFERENTLY.
IN 1986 WE PASSED A RESOLUTION
PROHIBITING THE USE OF CITY
FUNDS FOR THE PURCHASE OF GOODS
PRODUCED IN APARTHEID SOUTH
AFRICA AND AGAIN IN NINETEEN
NINETY SIX YOU PASSED A
RESOLUTION BARRING PURCHASES
FROM BUSINESSES IN BURMA.
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE HERE?
WHY ARE YOU SO UNWILLING TO ACT
HERE?
LOCAL ACTIONS HAVE
INTERNATIONAL IMPLICATIONS AND
BY PASSING THE RESOLUTION WE
ARE PROPOSING TONIGHT WE CAN
SIGNAL THE PUBLIC SENTIMENT TO
OUR ELECTED POLITICIANS IN
ORDER TO PUT PRESSURE ON
PASSING A SIMILAR CEASE FIRE
AND DIVESTMENT ACT ON A LARGER
SCALE.
I AM AN IRANIAN AMERICAN WOMAN.
MY PARENTS LEFT IRAN PRIMARILY
DUE TO THE DICTATORIAL, VIOLENT
AND REPRESSIVE REGIME THAT HAD
COME TO POWER RESTRICTING LIFE
OPPORTUNITIES AND FREEDOM
THROUGHOUT MY LIFE I HAVE
PARTICIPATED HEAVILY IN
MOVEMENTS FIGHTING FOR THE
NATIONAL ETHNIC, LINGUISTIC AND
GENDER EQUALITY OF MY PEOPLE
BOTH WITHIN AND OUTSIDE OF IRAN
.
I BRING UP MY OWN PERSONAL
STORY BECAUSE THIS STRUGGLE FOR
EQUALITY WHICH PERSONALLY
AFFECTS ME CANNOT AND SHOULD
NOT BE SEPARATED FROM THE
PALESTINIAN CAUSE FOR
LIBERATION FROM OCCUPATION AND
GENOCIDE.
THE PALESTINIAN CAUSE EXTENDS
FAR PAST ITS OWN GEOGRAPHY.
IT MUST BE A SHARED STRUGGLE
AMONG ALL PEOPLE WHO ARE
PUSHING AND STRIVING FOR
LIBERATION AND FREEDOM.
I URGE YOU ALL TO SEE YOUR
SHARED RESPONSIBILITY TO END
THIS GENOCIDE.
THE TIME TO ACT IS NOW EVERY
DAY THAT GOES BY MORE AND MORE
PEOPLE IN GAZA ARE KILLED, MORE
HOMES ARE DESTROYED, MORE
GENERATION ARE COMPLETELY WIPED
OUT.
THE NUMBER OF PALESTINIAN
DEATHS HAVE SURPASSED THOSE
WITHIN RUSSIA AND UKRAINE AS
WELL AS IN AFGHANISTAN, BOTH
OF WHICH ARE CONFLICTS THAT
HAVE RAGED FOR MUCH LONGER.
WHAT IS MOST IMPORTANT IS THAT
THE BOMBS THAT ISRAEL DROPS ON
PEOPLE IN GAZA ARE AMERICAN
BOMBS PAID FOR BY AMERICAN TAX
DOLLARS.
WE ARE ENABLING IS GENOCIDE AND
WE THUS HAVE THE POWER AND THE
RESPONSIBILITY TO PUSH FOR THIS
GENOCIDE TO END.
AND YOU AS AN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE A DUTY AND
A RESPONSIBILITY TO LISTEN TO
YOUR CONSTITUENTS REALLY LISTEN
.
WE HAVE SPOKE AND SPOKE AGAIN
AND AGAIN TONIGHT AND PASSED
THIS RESOLUTION TO INDICATE TO
ALL THAT OUR NEIGHBOR STANDS ON
THE SIDE OF JUSTICE AND
LIBERATION.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER, MISS
TEMPLETON
.
I HELLO.
AND I MUST SAY THAT I AM QUITE
DISAPPOINTED BY WHAT THE MAYOR
AND SOME CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
HAVE CHOSEN TO SHARE IN REGARDS
TO THE CALL FOR A RESOLUTION TO
CALL FOR A CEASE FIRE IN GAZA
AND THE CENSORSHIP THAT
FOLLOWED.
I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU HAVE
RULES AND STANDARDS THAT YOU
MUST UNDERSTAND THAT
GENERATIONS OF PEOPLE SHARE IN
THE STRUGGLE FOR THE
PALESTINIAN LIBERATION AS AN
ENORMOUS STAKEHOLDER IT IS
APPARENT TO ME THAT OUR
REPRESENTATIVES ARE NOT
LISTENING TO MY FELLOW
STAKEHOLDERS, SOME OF WHOM CAME
TOGETHER TO DRAFT A RESOLUTION
FOR YOU PALESTINIANS ARE DYING
BY THE HUNDREDS EVERY DAY IN
THE MOST INHUMANE CONDITIONS.
I ALSO THINK ABOUT HOW SOME
SEVEN PERCENT OF THE
POPULATION IN GAZA ARE CHILDREN
BECAUSE THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL
SIMILAR ATTACKS ON GAZANS IN
THE LAST TWO DECADES ALONE
MEANING MOST OF THE PEOPLE THAT
WERE ALIVE IN GAZA PRIOR TO
OCTOBER HAVE SURVIVED AT LEAST
FOUR BOMBARDMENTS PRIOR TO THE
CURRENT ONE.
ADDITIONALLY, ISRAEL HAS
ARRESTED HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
DESPITE AGE WITHOUT CHARGES AND
HAVE HELD THEM FOR LITERAL
YEARS DOING THE YOUTH OF MANY
THEY HAVE STATED CLEARLY THAT
THEIR GOAL IS TO RID THE
PALESTINIAN LAND OF PEOPLE.
I SAW A VIDEO OF A 13 YEAR OLD
GIRL WHOSE HOME WAS BOMBED AND
COLLAPSED ON TOP OF HER AND HER
FAMILY AND SHE ASKS THOSE WHO
COULD HELP TO PRIORITIZE HER
FAMILY MEMBERS TO BE SAVED
BEFORE HER OWN SELF.
IT'S HEARTBREAKING TO WITNESS
THE GENOCIDE HAPPENING RIGHT
NOW BUT IT FEELS WORSE KNOWING
THAT OUR REPRESENTATIVES WILL
NOT RESPOND AS THEY HAVE BEEN
CALLED TO BY THE MAJORITY
OF THEIR CONSTITUENTS YET
THOUSANDS OF ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS CONTINUE TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE PEACEFUL
MOVEMENT AROUND THE WORLD
CALLING FOR PALESTINIAN
LIBERATION.
THERE'S FAR TOO MUCH EVIDENCE
AVAILABLE THAT HAS DISPROVEN
MUCH OF THE PROPAGANDA SHARED
BY YOU AND ISRAELI OFFICIALS
HAVE TOUTED TO JUSTIFY BREAKING
INTERNATIONAL LAW.
AMPLIFY OUR VOICES HERE AND
THAT OF THE MANY ALLIES
PLEADING FOR HUMANITY AND JUST
PASS THE RESOLUTION
SPEAKING
PLEASE.
IMAD GHANIM AHMED GHUNEIM
JONATHAN
WHATEVER HIS NAME IS
I'M NOT.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
THAT IS YOUR LAST NAME IS NOT
THE SAME.
I CAN BE WHAT YOU CALL HER WITH
THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN ZERO
THREE FIVE NO THANK YOU WHERE
HE WAS ON THE CALL I THINK HE
MIGHT HAVE HUNG UP THE PHONE.
YOU DO YOU KNOW WHAT HE WAS ON
THE CALL.
HE WAS JUST HERE I THINK TO
THAT POINT IN YOUR AUDIENCE
.
SO DON'T SAY MY NAME, OK?
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS REBECCA
CARMELLO DEAN
.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
MR. GHUNEIM IS BACK.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU MR. GOOD NAME CALLER.
THE PHONE NUMBER ZERO THREE
FIVE GO AHEAD STAR SIX ON YOUR
PHONE
CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ZERO THREE FIVE CRESTAR
SIX ON YOUR PHONE
CALLER WITH
THE PHONE NUMBER ZERO THREE
FIVE SIX ON ME AT YOUR PHONE TO
SPEAK HELLO.
GOOD.
HELLO.
YES WE CAN HEAR YOU.
YES ABOUT THAT.
THAT'S THIS MEETING HAS BEEN
GOING FOR ALMOST THREE HOURS
NOW AND WE KNOW THAT ON AVERAGE
I PUT UP YOU EVERY TEN MINUTES
.
THIS MEANS THAT PART OF THE
MEETING NOW AT ABOUT TWENTY
FOUR A.M. BUT OPINION CHILDREN
HAVE LOST THEIR LIFE.
THAT IS THE REALITY THAT WE ARE
DEALING WITH RIGHT NOW WHEN
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT POLITICS WHEN
PEOPLE ARE GETTING OUT OF THE
CHILDREN OUT OF VALUE RIGHT NOW
WHEN WE'RE CHILDREN AROUND
TWENTY FOUR CHILDREN ARE KILLED
WHILE WE ARE BACK RIGHT NOW AND
BECAUSE OF THAT I'D LIKE TO
TALK TO THE MEMBERS OF THE
COUNCIL OF THE CITY BECAUSE I
THINK THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY
HAS HEARD ENOUGH THAT I TALK TO
THE PEOPLE LIKE ME, PEOPLE LIKE
THE STATE ON THIS CALL FOR
ABOUT THREE HOURS RIGHT NOW.
I KNOW OVERWHELMED.
I KNOW I GO TO EVERY SINGLE DAY
WE GET A PHONE CALL.
WE GET A REQUEST ALL THE TIME
THAT I THINK THE NOT EASY
BECAUSE WE HAVE TO BALANCE OUR
COMMITMENT WITH ALDERMAN BUT WE
DO ONE THING IF A BUNCH OF THE
15 YEAR OLD MOHAMMAD SAID IF
YOU AND TRY AND UNDERGO SURGERY
TO AMPUTATE HIS LEG WITHOUT
ANESTHESIA, I THINK WE CAN
DUPLICATE WHAT I HAVE A GREAT
ADVOCATE FOR THE BOY FOR THAT
SHOULD BE OK.
YEAH WELL MY MESSAGE FOR YOU
NOT TO PUT ANY MORE BABIES TO
YOU.
YOU LISTEN TO ME.
THIS IS WHO YOU ARE.
YOU SAY YOU ARE TAKING THE TIME
FROM YOUR FAMILY AND FOR YOUR
BRAIN PLEASE KEEP GOING.
KEEP KEEP MAKING RELIABLE
CHILDREN.
WHY DIDN'T YOU SAY THIS ABOUT
YOUR WHOLE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
KEEP GOING.
THANK YOU ON OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS REBECCA COME ON THE DENHA
MAYOR I WAS EXPECTING HER ON
THE PHONE BACK YOU CAN SEE HER
THAT SHE'D BEEN ON FOR A BIT.
YEAH I'VE NOT SEEN OK I HAVE
THE NEXT CALLER OK OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS RABAB KATAB
CALL HER
THE PHONE NUMBER AND AGAIN FIVE
TWO FIVE STAR SIX FROM YOUR
PHONE.
GO AHEAD
, LOVE YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN.
OK, GREAT.
I WANT TO THANK YOU ALL FOR OUR
FOR HAVING ME.
I JUST WANT TO AND I WANT TO
THANK EVERYBODY FOR TAKING THE
TIME AND COMING IN AND HOLDING
ON LINE TO VOICE THEIR VOICE,
THEIR OPINIONS AND I WANT TO
ECHO THE VOICES OF MY FELLOW
MICHIGANDERS IN OUR CITY
COUNCIL TO INTRODUCE A
CEASEFIRE RESOLUTION TO DATE
OVER 20000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
MURDERED IN GAZA.
ENTIRE BLOODLINES HAVE BEEN
WIPED OUT LAST WEEK I WAS ASKED
ABOUT THIS GENOCIDE THAT AND
THE AVERAGE AGE OF ALL
PALESTINIANS MURDERED IN THIS
GENOCIDE FIVE YEARS OLD BY
AFTER THE RECENT BRIEF CEASE
FIRE, ISRAEL HAS ONLY CONTINUED
BOMBARDING PALESTINIAN MEN,
WOMEN AND CHILDREN EVEN MORE SO
THAN BEFORE IF THAT'S EVEN
POSSIBLE, ALTHOUGH THESE
ACTIONS TAKE PLACE ON AN
INTERNATIONAL STAGE, WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN GAZA STILL SHOULD
BE A LOCAL CONCERN.
THE BOMBS THAT ISRAEL DROPS ON
PEOPLE IN GAZA ARE AMERICAN
BOMBS PAID FOR BY AMERICAN TAX
DOLLARS TAX DOLLARS THAT WE
SHOULD INSTEAD BE USING TO
IMPROVE OUR COMMUNITY BUT
INSTEAD THEY'RE BEING USED TO
DESTROY LIVES WE ARE ENABLING
THIS GENOCIDE.
WHEN I SAY WE I MEAN YOU, ME
AND EVERY SINGLE PERSON THAT
PAYS TAXES BUT WE ALSO HAVE THE
POWER TO PUSH FOR THIS GENOCIDE
TO END THE CITY COUNCIL HAS A
TRADITION OF BEING ON THE RIGHT
SIDE OF HISTORY AS THE
GENTLEMAN AND YOUNG PERSON HE
SPOKE ABOUT, INCLUDING WHEN IT
PASSED A RESOLUTION PROHIBITING
THE USE OF CITY FUNDS FOR THE
PURCHASE OF GOODS PRODUCED IN
APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY SIX.
I DON'T WANT TO PASS THE
RESOLUTION BARRING PURCHASES
FROM BUSINESSES IN BURMA YOU
LIVE IN AH THE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS HAVE A DUTY AND A
RESPONSIBILITY TO LISTEN TO
YOUR CONSTITUENTS INTRODUCE AND
PASS A RESOLUTION TO INDICATE
TO ALL THAT ANN ARBOR STANDS ON
THE SIDE OF JUSTICE AND
LIBERATION IF DETROIT AND
TRIMET AND BJORN'S THAT IS IN
THEIR JURISDICTION AND CAN
INTRODUCE AND THEN PASS
RESOLUTIONS.
SO KANADA, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG
.
MAYOR, I DON'T BELIEVE MR.
STOLLBERG IS ON THE LINE AND
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ORIELS ITZ
OH MY NAME'S ORIO.
I'M A PROUD MEMBER OF THE ANN
ARBOR JEWISH COMMUNITY AND A
STUDENT ATHLETE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I URGE THE CITY TO INTRODUCE
THE PROPOSAL PROPOSED
RESOLUTION AFFIRMING THE CITY
OF AND ARBOR'S COMMITMENT AND
SUPPORT FOR AN IMMEDIATE AND
PERMANENT CEASE FIRE IN GAZA
AND ARBITRAGEUR AND MANY
OF OTHER CITIES IN MICHIGAN AND
NATIONALLY SUCH AS OUR
NEIGHBORS OF DEARBORN, DEARBORN
HEIGHTS AND HAMTRAMCK AND
OTHERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY LIKE
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA AND
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON HAVE CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTIONS AS A CONCERN
OF AN EVENT.
I BELIEVE IT IS BOTH TIMELY AND
IMPERATIVE FOR OUR CITY TO TAKE
A STAND IN CALLING FOR HUMANITY
AND CEASE FIRE BY INTRODUCING
AND ENFORCING SUCH A RESOLUTION
AND WOULD BE AFFIRMING ITS
COMMITMENT TO HUMANITARIAN
PRINCIPLES AND THE WELL-BEING
OF ALL PEOPLE AFFECTED IN THIS
CONFLICT A MAJORITY OF WHOM ARE
WOMEN AND CHILDREN INSTEAD
OF CONTINUING ITS COMPLACENCY
IN THE ONGOING BLOODSHED IN
GAZA, I URGE THE SENATE IN
ORDER TO PRIORITIZE SPENDING
OUR TAXPAYER DOLLARS ON THINGS
THAT GREW STRONGER AND MORE
HEALTHY COMMUNITIES SUCH AS
STUDENT LOAN FORGIVENESS
IMPROVED HOUSING AND FOOD
ASSISTANCE, BETTER
INFRASTRUCTURE AND AN ENHANCED
PUBLIC HOUSING REALLOCATION
OF OUR TAXPAYER DOLLARS FROM
THE ISRAELI OCCUPATION AND
TOWARDS THESE INITIATIVES IS
IMPERATIVE AND WE TAXPAYERS ARE
ASKING FOR AS A JEWISH MEMBER
OF THIS COMMUNITY I MUST
EMPHASIZE THAT THIS COUNCIL
SHOULD REJECT THE WEAPONIZATION
DISTORTION AND POLITICAL
RESOLUTION OF ANTI-SEMITISM
THAT HAS BEEN USED TO SUPPRESS
THE VOICES OF PEOPLE WITHIN
THIS COMMUNITY ARE ADVOCATING
FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND A
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE TO MAKE THIS
COUNCIL TO EXPRESS ITS CONCERN
OVER THE WELL-BEING OF THE
PEOPLE OF THIS COMMUNITY.
I APPROVE THIS RESOLUTION WOULD
BE A POWERFUL STEP IN HELPING
TO BRIDGE THE RACIAL AND
RELIGIOUS DIVIDE
THAT IS
CURRENTLY CREATING STRIFE
WITHIN THIS COMMUNITY.
THOUSANDS OF MEMBERS WITHIN
THIS COMMUNITY INCLUDING
MYSELF, COMMUNICARE, CONTINUE
TO STAND AGAINST THE GENOCIDE
OCCURRING AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN AGAINST MASS
DISPLACEMENT, COLLECTIVE
PUNISHMENT AND MILITARY
OCCUPATION BY INTRODUCING THIS
RESOLUTION TO CALL FOR A
CEASEFIRE IN GAZA, YOU WILL BE
SUPPORTING WANTS AND NEEDS
OF JEWISH, MUSLIM PALESTINIAN
AND ARAB COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN
EFFORTS TO FOSTER A COMMUNITY
SAFETY, LIVING AND LOVE IN AN
ORBIT YOU MUST REMAIN SILENT
AND CLEAR ABOUT INJUSTICES
CEASE FIRE NOW IN GAZA
OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS SHEBEENS YAQUIS
JEWISH AMERICANS ARE GETTING
ARRESTED CALLING FOR MAYOR.
I DON'T SEE THIS CALLER ON THE
LINE.
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO BE ON THE
PHONE.
HAS HE BEEN ON THE PHONE FOR A
BIT?
NO, I DON'T HAVE THIS CALLER ON
THE LINE FOR ME.
YEAH, SEE NO FURTHER PUBLIC
COMMENT IS CLOSED
.
MADE A MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL,
MY COUNCILOR IA DISCUSSION HE'S
OUT THERE HE IS.
HE WAS CALLED WELL IF HE'S IN
THE ROOM THEN HE'S IN THE ROOM.
BUT NO, I'M SORRY HE'S NOT BEEN
WE HAVE HIS NUMBER AND HE HAS
NOT BEEN HE HAS NOT BEEN ON THE
LINE.
I HAD CORNELL AND I SAY HE I
MEAN WHAT'S THANK YOU FOR
SAYING SO WHAT IS HIS HIS THE
LAST DIGITS OF HIS TELEPHONE
NUMBER HER MY APOLOGIES FOR HIS
LAST FOR NINE THANK YOU
.
IT'S NOT HERE.
WE DON'T HAVE THEM.
WE DON'T WE DON'T HAVE OF YOU
ON THE PHONE NUMBER NINE WE
HAVE SOMEONE WITH A PHONE
NUMBER NINE SIX NINE RAISING
THEIR HAND IS POSSIBLY HER
THANK YOU THREE
.
YEAH THAT'S IT.
THAT
RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU CORNELL MOTION TO
JUMP BACK CORNELL AND BY IA
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED FOR
ADJOURNED